[time=0] (eerie music)
[time=30] - Hi, I'm Kelly Bird, senior pastor here at Black Hawk Ministries and I want to welcome you to the Bible Hour. I want to welcome maybe a few of you who might be tuning in for the first time with a new time slot.
[time=59] For the Bible Hour, we may be connecting with, in some ways, a new audience. We have been for years at the 7 a.m. time slot on Sunday mornings, but now we find ourselves here at the 830 hour and we just want all of you to know how thankful we are to be able to be with you in a setting like this.
[time=77] I'm so thankful for what the Bible Hour does for years and years. It has helped people connect with what God is doing through Black Hawk Ministries and we just love nothing more than to bring the worship service, the gathering that we experience on Sundays, right to you wherever you are.
[time=97] The greatest priority there and the greatest hope that we have is while we enjoy you getting a chance to see what it was like, we so enjoy and we so want you to hear the truth of God's Word.
[time=110] We try in our very best to teach it and to proclaim it and to explain it in ways that can really make sense for whoever you are and wherever you've been, whatever stage of life you find yourself in, we pray and we hope that the Word of God and our efforts to teach it and communicate it will connect with you in a meaningful and life-changing way.
[time=132] So if you're joining us for the first time, if this is a new experience for you, we're really thankful to have you with us.
[time=139] What you're about to watch is a message from this past Sunday.
[time=143] What you see is always kind of a week delayed and we have in recent weeks just started a new series and it's entitled "The One Thing God's Always Desired".
[time=153] The idea there is there's this one thing that God has from the very beginning always wanted with his people and that one thing is a relationship.
[time=163] That one thing is that he has from the beginning wanted to be with you.
[time=168] He has wanted to be close to you.
[time=170] He has wanted to be intimate in his relationship with his people and as we search the scriptures on this, we realize there are some things about that relationship that he has always desired as well.
[time=181] Number one, he has always wanted that relationship to be sincere and we looked at that a week ago.
[time=188] Heart level stuff, God has always been consumed with the heart of man and now in this week you'll see a second component to this relationship and that is that God always has wanted the relationship to be marked by obedience.
[time=203] God has spoken. God has revealed for us in his word what his will is for our lives and God has from the beginning wanted you and I to respond to him obediently.
[time=216] And in a day and age where so many times we find ourselves and culture wanting to do our own thing, God says look I want to have this relationship with you but there are some things I want you to do.
[time=228] I want you to follow me and so obedience is this all important second quality of this relationship that he's always wanted.
[time=237] I hope you'll listen, I hope you'll keep your heart and your mind open to what God's word will have for you today and if you are tuning in for the first time or if this is a new experience, we always say this on the Bible hour.
[time=250] We're all wind up this little segment and I'll always say we hope to see you soon and I don't just say that because it's just a nice thing to say.
[time=259] We really do. We would love to see you soon. This is a place, a family that hasn't forgotten what it's like to be on the outside looking in.
[time=268] We realize there are many who have a lot of different opinions and perspectives about church today and we would love to be a place where you could come and meet some people who would genuinely care for you.
[time=279] It is a safe place to hear a life-changing message and we can't wait for the opportunity to share that message with you.
[time=287] So we hope you enjoy the broadcast today. We would love to see you soon and know how thankful we are for the chance to be with you.
[time=296] God bless you. Have a great week and we'll see you soon.
[time=307] And Jesus came up and spoke to them saying, "All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth."
[time=314] Therefore go and make disciples of all men, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.
[time=335] Teaching them to observe all I have commanded you, and lo I am with you always, even to the end of the age.
[time=342] Helping seekers find and follow Christ.
[time=365] You are King of Kings. You are mighty God, Lord of everything.
[time=374] You'll defend you and you're the reign I am.
[time=380] You're a Prince of Kings, who wins the reign.
[time=386] You're the living God. You're my saving grace.
[time=392] You will reign forever. You are angels of kings.
[time=398] You are a full of faith in the end.
[time=404] You're my Savior, the Messiah, Redeemer and friend.
[time=410] You're my Prince of Peace, and I will end my life for you.
[time=452] You have made me glad, and I'll stay up the road.
[time=465] You are my King, my strength, my portion.
[time=476] You have made me glad, and I will end my life for you.
[time=487] You are my Prince of Kings, and I will end my life for you.
[time=731] You know, I was going to do this at the end of the service, but I think I'm going to do it now.
[time=736] I want to just give you a chance, too.
[time=738] As a family, be mindful of and be praying for a really, really special event
[time=744] that's going to be taking place over the next week.
[time=747] I mentioned it to you last week, but I just want to tell you a little bit more about it this morning, and then I'm going to have you pray for us.
[time=753] We have a great privilege.
[time=756] I'm going to talk about an awesome and amazing God.
[time=761] Couple two, three months ago, I was contacted by a good friend who told me about an opportunity, and he was in telling me about it.
[time=768] He was inviting me and others from our family here to participate in it.
[time=772] And I want to just tell you the story briefly.
[time=774] It's an incredible, incredible story.
[time=777] A friend of ours, I've known him.
[time=779] I've known of him.
[time=780] I don't know him really well, but I know who he is, and I'm aware of his ministry, and he's got some friends who are friends of mine, and this guy, a young 30-year-old young man and his wife, Shannon, is his name, and Danielle.
[time=791] They're serving, ministering over in Uganda.
[time=795] And in Uganda, Shannon and his wife have gone to really do one thing, and that is try their best with God's help to encourage the church, to try and come alongside the church in whatever way is possible, to train and encourage and provide resources and just give their lives to help the church in Uganda move forward.
[time=814] Well, at a lunch, a couple several, almost a year ago, I think now, somehow in a meeting, he got to meet Shannon, a young 30-year-old, 30-something guy, just kind of getting his feet wet.
[time=826] He meets the archbishop of the Anglican church in Uganda.
[time=832] Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of Anglican churches all over the country of Uganda.
[time=838] The archbishop of the Anglican church meets Shannon, and for some reason, God just kind of shines and brings favor on that relationship, and as they meet and talk, the archbishop of the Anglican church asks Shannon if there's any way he could help him, if there's any way Shannon could help the archbishop in his effort to better train and encourage his pastors. He says to him, he says to Shannon, I have a pastors conference every year, we're over 550 of my pastors come for a week-long conference, and he says to Shannon, I wish it could be more for them. I wish there were some ways that we could better train and equip. See the Anglican church in many places, and in many places in Uganda still very tied to and stuck in the tradition and liturgy in a place where people have so much need. In Uganda, all across that land there are villages and communities and people who are absolutely dying, ravaged by AIDS, absolutely ravaged by the state of poverty. It's an amazing situation, and the church there is trying, and the Anglican church there with this archbishop, he's trying to figure out ways to make a difference, and it's not going so well. So he says to Shannon, do you know, I assume you know people. I assume you have people you could call who could come and help, and so Shannon gets on the phone or the email as it were, and we, myself, and another friend of mine from back in California and some guys from his team and some guys from our team here, we're going Friday. This Friday will fly to Uganda where we will have the privilege of serving over 550 pastors for a week in an effort to encourage them, in an effort to teach them, in an effort to equip them, to come alongside and offer them whatever we can, to strengthen them in their efforts to minister to people in that land. I'll have the privilege of speaking in several of the main sessions. Brent Imer is going with, he's our global ministry's pastor.
[time=966] Brent's going to come with and teach a workshop during the week on missions.
[time=970] Tony Opliger and Matthew Roars, guys that are involved in leadership right here in our own family, they're coming with as well.
[time=978] Matthew and Tony will be team teaching a workshop throughout the week on biblical giving, trying to help those guys understand what that looks like and how they can encourage that in their settings, and there are a number of other opportunities that are going to be made available to us that we're really looking forward to, but I just want you to pray for us. I'm going to ask, in fact, I'm going to ask Tony and Hannah to come on up, Matthew and Jeanne, Brent, come on up, Barb and Deborah, come on up, and I'm going to ask Mitch, and any pastors or elders in the room, would you join us on stage just briefly, and I want to just ask if Mitch would, on behalf of our elder board and our leadership team, just pray for us.
[time=1018] I'm so thankful that the guys are going, I'm thankful for the gals who will be for a week left behind, but I know, come on over here, everybody, Tony and Hannah, Matthew and Jeanne, come on, sweetie, hi, come on up here, Brent. And Tony and Hannah, on the end, in case you don't know who they are, the Opligers and Matthew and Jeanne Roars and Brent and Barb Imer, and my wife Deborah, and thank you guys for coming up here, and thank all of you, just for your support, and please pray for us. Pray for the trip and pray that we could encourage Shannon and his wife Danielle, pray that we could speak truth into the hearts and lives of these men, and pray that God would just do a great thing. Many of them are really, really hurting. Many of them discouraged because of what they face every day, and we get the privilege of trying to come alongside in a way that would make a difference.
[time=1070] So pray for us, please, and we'll make sure we keep you posted on the website, and I'll be back here with you all on the 28th and give you an update. Mitch, would you pray for us?
[time=1082] Thanks.
[time=1086] God, you are the author
[time=1092] of the transferable message, and it's through the transferable message of who you are that hearts are changed and lives are changed to reflect who you are, and God, where I realize a lot will be taught because messages are 93% non-verbal, I just wonder how much will be caught by the hearts and lives of these people going over to share your message of Christ and heart transformation. God, we pray for your wisdom, we pray for your guidance, we pray for your protection, and your provision, not just for the team going over, but for the families here. God may each experience your love in a way he or she has never experienced your love before.
[time=1164] And God may everyone know that you are the God of love, and when you boiled it down to one thing, you said it's about loving you and loving others, so may it be so.
[time=1176] We love you and praise you for who you are. In Jesus' mighty name we pray, and all God's people said. Amen.
[time=1184] Thanks so much.
[time=1188] We're a tall team too, a six, seven, six, five, six, and Tony's our point guard at five, ten, whatever, pray for an exit rose as well.
[time=1200] Hey, I also want to thank you for your prayers this last week. I know many of you prayed for our daughter Maddie. She recovered great from the appendectomy, and she got home actually last Sunday afternoon, and it's just been a thrill to have her back in the house and on the mend, and we just want to thank you. Kebra and I both for your prayers, many of the cards and the emails and the notes that you dropped meant a lot to us, and it's nice having her healthy again, and we got her home, and we got her home a couple days, and then we went back to the ER on Wednesday with our dog. I wasn't even, I didn't really even know they had ERs for dogs, but they, let me tell you they do, and we've had an amazing week with our sweet little one-year-old golden retriever who for some reason decided to jump out on the frozen pond.
[time=1252] Well, Jake was out there with her, and they were just playing around, and she jumps out on the pond and falls through, and then tries to come up, but she's at a different place when she was trying to come up than where she'd gone in, so we about lost her.
[time=1268] She struggled to find her way back to water and not ice swallowed a lot of water, inhaled a bunch, collapsed.
[time=1276] Kebra and the kids came out just in time to kind of, to do the, you've seen the commercial for Comcast, saving big bucks, or the lifeguards given the deer CPR? We weren't laughing about it last last week, but now I can say that, and we can laugh about it, because that's exactly what they did, they just were just pumping on her rib cage and up comes some water, and her eyes opened, and the doctors were able to treat her, and they didn't think she would make it at first, but now she's getting better, and so it's been an amazing, couple weeks with ERs and doctors and members of the family coming home, so anyway.
[time=1316] I've got to tell you how much it meant to me this last week to just reflect on our time last Sunday. I have been so looking forward to these few weeks as we've had the opportunity, as we're in the midst of this opportunity, to think about and to discuss the one thing God's always wanted, to give real thought and attention to this one thing that has always meant the most to him, the one thing that from the beginning of time he has always desired, the one thing from the very beginning of what he created, the one thing he has always longed to have, and you know whether I'm thinking about my daughter in a, you know, in a hospital bed, or, you know, I'm thinking about my little kids and them constantly asking me about, you know, when's Laker coming home, I think about a good friend of ours, Jim McCrady, who went to be home with the Lord this week, and I think about how thankful his family and his friends are for the fact that the struggle's now over, but I think about, you know, the one thing, his family, his wife Kathy and his sons and his immediate family and those of us that knew him, you know, you think about the one thing that we'll miss now.
[time=1392] It doesn't matter where you go in your life, your life and mine are all about, it's always been about and it will always be about relationships.
[time=1400] They mean so much. We are designed, we are made in the image of who? Made in the image of God to be relational beings, relationships. They mean so much.
[time=1412] We love it and we're so thankful and grateful when they're what they should be.
[time=1416] We're so at odds when they're fractured. We are relational beings.
[time=1420] Relationships are at the center of all that we are and all that we do.
[time=1424] And it's that way because God made it that way because God made us in his image and he has from the beginning been a relational God who wanted nothing more than to just be with you.
[time=1440] He wanted nothing more than for you to just come home. He wanted nothing more than to just be together. He has from the beginning wanted and delivered intimacy with you and with me and with his people. And what a privilege to be able to just look into the scriptures last Sunday and we'll do it again this morning and we'll do it again for the next few weeks to look at this relationship that he has always wanted.
[time=1468] And we mentioned last week that that relationship while they could be characterized in a number of different ways, we wanted to just focus in on four things. Four characteristics of this relationship with God. This relationship he has always wanted. This relationship from the very first page of this all the way to the very last word.
[time=1492] This relationship that he has always been about and he has always wanted this relationship to be about last week we talked about sincerity. Did you write that down?
[time=1504] If you haven't you can go ahead and write that down this morning.
[time=1508] It was the place that we started in our discussion and I believe it's the place to start in this discussion because I believe it's the place that God starts on this. God has always wanted that relationship to be about excuse me the heart. You're with me?
[time=1528] God has always wanted first and foremost that relationship to be sincere. He has always wanted it to be genuine.
[time=1536] He has always longed for a people who would love him.
[time=1540] He has from the beginning wanted this to be an authentic deal where we were in relationship with him and we loved him. A relationship born out of our soul. As we got to the end of last week I shared Isaiah 29-13 with you. I'm going to show it to you again this morning.
[time=1556] Isaiah 29-13 then the Lord said because this people drawn near with their words. See if we're not careful this heartfelt sincere genuine authentic relationship that he longs for. It can if we're not careful begin to wane. It can fade and we can move in our relational interactions with him. We can move toward the merely external.
[time=1580] And that isn't at all what he desires.
[time=1584] Look what he says. Then the Lord said because this people draw near with their words and honor me with their lip service or at least attempt to. But look but they remove their what? They remove their hearts far from me and their reverence for me consists of nothing more than tradition learned by wrote. If we're not careful my friends in this relationship that he longs to have with us and that we are privileged to have with him for not careful it can become marked by characterized by meaningless spiritual activity useless repetition useless and meaningless and that it lacks heart.
[time=1632] Hosea 6-6 you might want to write that down what a powerful just brief you know couple lines but it is a great passage.
[time=1640] Hosea 6-6 says for I delight look at that for I delight loyalty rather than sacrifice in other words God says he delights in the heart he delights in that which is sincere he delights in that which is genuine he delights in your loyalty in your affection rather than your sacrifice and in the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings laying a lamb on an altar while it was important in that day it was important and it was appropriate and God was honored by it when the lamb would be laid on the altar with heart when the act of worship or the act of service or the act of sacrifice is made whether we're talking about an altar and a lamb or you singing a song this morning or you even being here this morning or you paying your taxes or you loving your husband or you holding your tongue whatever the act of obedience is see it gained great import and it was of great significance to him when it's done because we love him because we want to honor him because genuinely down deepen our souls there is this desire to love our God he delights in loyalty rather than just mere sacrifice relationship it's what he's wanted from the very beginning and he has always desired that it be sincere number two write this down very very closely related and we've even referenced it a few times and we've seen it in some of the passages that we've looked at but I want you to see how at number two it's just a direct outflow of number one not only does he want the relationship to be sincere my friends he wants it to be a relationship characterized by obedience would you write that down this morning obedience God has always been about relationship and he has always longed for that relationship to be sincere and out of that sincerity he has longed for you and I to be a people who did what he asked us to do to be who he called us to be if relationship is the one thing God has always desired then please be reminded of this this morning disobedience is without question then the one thing that Satan has always wanted if intimacy is the one thing that God has always desired then distance is without question the one thing Satan has always wanted because sin my friends disobedience separates us from God we talked about that last week and Satan wants don't forget and be reminded this morning Satan wants nothing more than for you and for I to be distant from God he wants you separated from him he wants you alone he wants you proud and he wants you because of your aloneness and your pride he knows them that you will be and I will be susceptible he knows that you and I are susceptible he knows that you and I are open he knows that you and I are fair game he knows that we are capable of moving in the wrong direction for the wrong motives toward the wrong consequences he knows he can get you if you are alone he knows he can get you if you are proud and he knows he can get you in that state when you are separated and distant from God disobeying he knows that obedience fosters relationship he knows that disobedience fractures it I mean just think about it I mean just think about it's hard for me I don't know about you but it's hard for me to have this discussion about obedience and our response to God it's almost impossible to think about divine obedience and our response to him without thinking about the situations in life where obedience is called for from us I can't help but think about a father and a mother and their children and whether you're in that stage of life or not I just think it's a powerful practical picture with so many of the same principles at play obedience fosters that relationship when I ask you to do something and you say sure let's do it relationship is fostered when I ask you to do something and you say no I don't want to relationship is fractured obedience deepens relationship disobedience diminishes it obedience cultivates relationship disobedience kills it obedience
[time=1926] heightens relationship disobedience hinders it obedience develops relationship and disobedience destroys it look with me at Genesis 2 this morning we're going to just do our very best to take this one concept this one thought of obedience and the fact that God has always longed for it he has always hoped that it would be an obedience that flows out of a sincere heart look what it says in Genesis 2 or I'm just going to take you passage after passage after passage this morning where we see the scriptures giving us a clear picture and a clear understanding of God's design and his hope for an obedient people look at Genesis chapter 2 verse 15 and I'll just try and give you some things to think about along the way as we kind of make our way through the scriptures we'll go we'll go forwards and backwards we'll go New Testament Old Testament I want to just show you as much as I can this morning about this quality of obedience as it relates to and pertains to a relationship with God Genesis 2 15 to 17 then the Lord God took the man and put him into the garden of Eden to cultivate it and keep it. Verse 16 says the Lord God commanded the man. Here you go the Lord God established a parameter he drew a line in the sand the Lord God commanded the man saying from any tree of the garden you may eat freely but from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat.
[time=2022] God says you can do this you can have this this is alright this is okay don't do this for in the day what does it say there for in the day that you eat from it for in the day that you disobey me you will surely what you will surely what you will surely suffer a consequence a consequence there are always consequences as God establishes his line as God for God's own reason because God's God if you were going to write something down on Genesis 2 15 to 17 I would just write something down like this obedience because he's God and because he said so right?
[time=2084] are there not times I mean do you think do you think for a moment Adam understood in those moments the whole tree thing anybody anybody do you understand the whole tree thing no do I not really I don't know that he understood the whole tree thing but what I do know is that who said it? God and whether it's the whole tree thing or I could just go around the room this morning how many of you could raise your hands this morning and speak to the issue of times where God has either in his revealed word just either in his revealed word or in his relationship with you clearly revealed to you that you need to do this and and how many of you could raise your hand and give testimony to the to the times where the this just didn't make any sense there's times do you and I need to be reminded that we obey because God said to do it or because God said not to do it and he's God and he knows so much more than you or I know he's so able to decipher and discern he's so given to a picture that you and I don't see and he says to Adam, oh baby, oh baby you can eat from this tree, don't eat from that tree the day you eat from that the day you disobey you will surely die well you know what it's not just an Old Testament concept turned to the go to Matthew, go to John if you would, go to the New Testament Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, not only do we see God dealing with Adam directly on this you see Jesus himself it's a very issue of obedience John 14 John 14 15 says it so simply says it so clearly says it so powerfully John 14 15 I want you to read this I want you to just say it out loud with me here we go John 14 50 read it with me if you love me you will keep my commandments our love for God it's it's always been this way he has always so closely connected and he has always so closely tied our love for him with our willingness to obey him our love for him the sincerity of our hearts commitment toward him connected to our willingness and readiness to follow him
[time=2235] look at verse 21
[time=2241] 14 said if you love me you will obey me he who has my commandments verse 21 and keeps them is the one who loves me and he who loves me will be loved by my father and I will love him and will look at this and will disclose myself to him relationship intimacy sincerity obedience coming together he who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me 23 Jesus answered and said if anyone loves me he will keep my word and my father will love him and we will come to him and make our abode with him relationship sincere obedient he who does not love me does not keep my words and the word which you hear is not mine but the fathers who sent me if back under Genesis 2 15 you wrote down because he's God and he said so next to these passages John 14 15 21 to 24 I might just write down because redeemed because redeemed people redeemed people respond in obedience because he did what he did because he offered what he offered because he died and rose again we respond with obedience we respond with a willingness to go where he calls us to go to do what he calls us to do if we love him our Savior our Lord we obey him look at 1 John go back to the back of the New Testament 1 John 2 I told you from cover to cover we see it everywhere we go God characterizing and describing relationship with him in this fashion go to 1 John chapter 2 verses 3 to 5 1 John just after 2 Peter you'll come to 1 John 1 John chapter 2 verse 3 by this we know that we have come to know him that's a great statement what a great thing we can know that we've come to know him we can know that we are his if we keep his commandments again the text here we've talked about this in the past the text here the translation in 1 John is not talking about perfection it's not talking about never disobeying a command it speaks here to the pattern of one's life 1 John talks to and speaks to the progressive pattern of your life by this we know that we have come to know him if we as a pattern and you need to think about this and I need to continually look at this if the pattern of my life is one of progressive obedience if the pattern of my life is one of as the days and the months and the years go by I am becoming more and more like him I'm not perfect and I haven't arrived but it's evident and obvious that he's growing me if the heart pattern that I evidence is one that loves him and seeks to obey by this we know that we have come to know him verse 4 says the one who says I have come to know him and does not keep as a pattern his commandments is a liar and the truth is not in him but whoever keeps his word in him the love of God has truly been perfected if you just go over a page to 1 John 5
[time=2446] 1 John 5
[time=2452] it says whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God and whoever loves the Father loves the child born of him by this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and observe his commandments to catch that 1 John 5 by this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and observe his commandments loving God and obedience from the beginning of relationship between God and his people obedience born out of a genuine heart has always been a priority go back now if you would stay with me here go back to Deuteronomy back to the Old Testament Deuteronomy chapter 8 let's look at this in the context of relationship with his people sometimes God sets the principle of obedience and he sets it clearly within the context of gratitude he sets it clearly in the context of remembering he sets obedience clearly in the context of a devotion to God a remembering of God's blessings and his goodness he calls people to obedient living based upon their memory of their recollection of their gratitude for all that he has done and he does the same thing with you and I today look at Deuteronomy 8 he's talking to the people of Israel he's talking about what's going to happen as they inherit this land that he has promised all the commandments that I am commanding you today you shall be careful to do do them in other words obey me that you may live and multiply and go in and possess the land which the Lord swore to you to give to your forefathers you shall verse 2 you shall remember it's why we always sing the song that we will we will remember he says you shall remember all the way which the Lord your God has led you in the wilderness these 40 years that he might humble you testing you to know what was in your what in your heart whether you would keep his commandments or not says in verse 6 therefore you shall keep the commandments keep the commandments of the Lord your God to walk in his ways and to fear him for the Lord your God is bringing you into a good land a land of brooks of water of fountains and springs flowing forth in valleys and hills a land of weed and barley of vines and fig trees and pomegranates a land of olive oil and honey a land where you will eat food without scarcity in which you will not lack anything a land whose stones are iron and out of whose hills you can dig copper when you have eaten and are satisfied you shall bless the Lord your God for the good land which he has given you and look at verse 11 beware he says this to them and he says this to you today beware that you do not what?
[time=2637] beware that you do not forget don't ever forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commandments and his ordinances and his statutes which I am commanding you today otherwise when you have eaten and are satisfied and have built good houses and lived in them and when your herds and your flocks multiply and your silver and gold multiply and all that you have multiplies then your heart will become proud and you will forget the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt out of the house of slavery oftentimes in the scriptures my friends he connects obedience your willingness in mind to do what he's called us to do he connects that to you being an individual who's willing to remember to count your blessings to to to to recount God's work on your behalf
[time=2691] to look back on all that he has accomplished and to be so very very grateful and out of your gratitude say God I will I will obey and I will go where you've called me to go and I will do what you've asked me to do goes back even to where we were last week if you'll remember last week go back to Genesis 4 we had kind of started to kind of look in at this oftentimes we get kind of focused on Genesis 3 but we realized in Genesis 4 as the story of Cain and Abel unfolds it's really an amazing story and we see last week our our topic of sincerity last week as we looked about relationship and how much it's always meant to God for that to come from the heart we saw in chapter 4 that Adam and Eve had given birth to Cain and Abel Abel was a tender of flocks and Cain was a tiller of the ground look at verse 3 verse 3 says so it came about in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to the Lord of the fruit of the ground the translation would tell us there that he brought some of the fruit of the ground Abel on his part verse 4 also brought of the first lings of his flock and of their fat portions Abel brings a gift from the heart Abel brings a sincere gift Cain brings some of his fruit lacking sincerity in heart and the Lord had regard it says there in verse 4 and the Lord had regard for Abel and for his offering but for verse 5 but for Cain and his offering he had no regard so Cain became angry and his countenance fell and that's where we stopped last week with this passage let me bring you back to verse 6 look what it says and now look what it says and think about where we've come today with this second characteristic of relationship how important it is that we be obedient in that relationship this is a very powerful interaction the Lord said to Cain all right here's the here's the Lord directly speaking to Cain why are you angry and why has your countenance fallen and don't miss this verse 7 if you do well you see that obedience obedience if you do well will not your countenance be lifted up and if you do not do well disobedience if you do not do well look what it says sin is crouching at the door and its desire is for who for you but you must master it Cain told Abel his brother and it came about when they were in the field that Cain disobeyed Cain rose up against Abel his brother Cain killed him it's a powerful powerful interaction the Lord says to him hey hey be careful here there's like he's waving a flag and kind of shining the light going hey hey hey hey be careful because if you do well your countenance will be lifted but if you don't do well understand this not doing well sin is crouching at the door like that lion prowling about you know first Peter and its desire is for you Satan always wants you and he always wants you through your disobedience 8 year olds don't miss that junior high high school kids don't miss that mom's and dad's don't miss that don't anybody in the room don't miss that he is crouching at the door and his desire is for you and he wants you and he'll get you through your disobedience I can't help but think about our kids
[time=2960] when I think about obedience and disobedience and that's design for relationship and how the obedience factor plays in as I read through the scriptures there's no way today we could get to all of the things that I've got written down no way we could really do it justice there's just so much in the scriptures about the obedience that he desires from us let me just tell you this as we go just something to take home with you if you were to ask me from a study of obedience over the last week and a half or so in my own life if you were going to ask me hey what's something you'd want us to take home here here here here it is I'll just I'll give this to you I could go a number of different directions on this but I just want to and I'm not trying to be funny as I say this but I think the way I wrote it down was this obedience for you this week I would invite you to just write write this down get get GIT or done right and here's what I want you to see get her done and I want you just to write this down the G everywhere you look in scripture this principle is lifted up your obedience in mind should be done with a great attitude and I'm not just talking about your ten-year-old okay this is good for your ten-year-old this is good for your five-year-old but you know what my friends this is good for me and this is good for you with authorities in your life in situations where God calls you to obey when you're supposed to do this whether it's about your wife or your husband or your pastor or your boss or whatever circumstance you're in if God's Word says to you and if God's Word says to me I need you to do this then he wants you and I to respond not mumbling not grumbling I don't want to take the garbage out I don't want to be home by eleven
[time=3086] I don't want to be nice to my boss now he doesn't want us grumbling
[time=3092] get her done a great attitude the eye there would just be this so important that you understand that biblical obedience my friends is immediate
[time=3106] and our you know in our lives and your life in mine and my kids lives your kids lie it doesn't matter where we go we're being asked in many cases by God and sometimes it's a teacher sometimes it's a coach we're being asked by God or those authorities that God has put in place we're being asked to do something or we're being asked not to and biblical submission and a willingness to obey God means that you and I would be willing in whatever context to do that active obedience win right away and if you or I with our kids for instance if you or I are walking around the house asking little Johnny to do it for the tenth time we are doing them absolutely no favors and we are teaching them that delayed obedience if at all because if we've gotten to eight nine ten times then the you know the odds are they're probably not yet we're not doing them any favors you and I need to faithfully teach young people and you and I need to faithfully model for young people obedience that's immediate if this is what God's called me to do if this is what the scriptures teach if this is how I'm to respond in this situation I'm going to do it and I'm going to do it now great attitude immediate and this is my favorite one you see this all through scripture you can read through first Samuel 15 I wrote this down we don't have time you can read through the story of King Saul in first Samuel 15 God said go take out the Amalekites Saul goes and takes out the Amalekites but he doesn't do it the way God told him to do it God said go take out the Amalekites and God said do it this way kaboom kaboom kaboom kaboom it's like you're telling your son or daughter to go clean their room right?
[time=3226] and I'm serious God oftentimes gives us specifics that he longs for us to engage in in our act of obedience and God expects our obedience to be thorough that's a tough one and if you read first Samuel 15 I would encourage you to read it and give it some thought you know Saul went and Saul went and took out the Amalekites he just didn't do it the way God asked him to and it cost him cost him your obedience in mind should be done with a great attitude it should be immediate and it should be thorough would you stand and let me read this to you this morning God has always longed my friends he has always wanted to be with you he has always desired relationship with his people he has always from the beginning he designed it this way and he has always longed for that relationship to be sincere and he has always longed for that relationship to be marked by an obedient spirit willing to follow look what it says in Psalm 15 let me read this to you as we go oh Lord David says who may listen to this who may abide in your tent what a great picture of intimacy what a great picture of relationship the holy tent of God David says who God who oh Lord may abide in your tent who may dwell on your holy hill who is it that gets to have relationship in its most intimate fashion with God verse 2 he who walks with integrity and works righteousness and speaks truth in his heart he who does not slander with his tongue nor do evil to his neighbor nor take up a reproach against his friend in whose eyes they reprobate his despised but who honors those who fear the Lord oh Lord who may abide in your tent who may dwell on your holy hill he who walks with integrity and works righteousness pray with me would you father God our desire is to be a people our longing is to be your people a people who would reside with you in your tent a people who would dwell intimately and personally with you on your holy hill. God you have always longed to be in relationship with us and because of your redeeming work in our hearts God we now long to know you more to live with you and to honor you and God in that desire we pray that you would teach us and show us what it means each of us here in this room there are many in the room who need to know what it means to obey we need to have understanding and clarity on how it is we're to respond in the situations God that you've placed us in so many of us in the room need courage so many of us in the room this morning need a clear path to follow so many of us God in the room need to understand and see so very clearly exactly what it is you would want us to do we are confused we don't quite know which way to turn and so God as we come before you this morning and as our lives represent a myriad of circumstances and situations with thousands of choices that need to be made God we know that you're above all of that that you see clearly into each and every circumstance here this morning and God I pray that you would in a powerful way God with those here this morning that know you with those here this morning that live in relationship with you God in their homes and their families God in their workplace God wherever they go would you help them to see through your spirit and through your word and through your people so very clearly what it is you want them to do God help them see and understand how it is you want them to respond God I pray that you would in a powerful way paint a clear picture of obedience so that we could obey so that we could trust you so that we could surrender our hearts and our lives and our decisions to you and be a people who don't forget but who remember your goodness and your greatness God we pray this week that we could live in relationship with you obediently and sincerely and bring us back together again next week if that be your will to continue to gain insight and understanding into this relationship that you've always long to have may it be so and may we be together again soon in your son's name we pray amen
[time=3556] [MUSIC - 30 seconds]
[time=3616] [BLANK_AUDIO]