[time=0] (bell ringing)
[time=30] (upbeat music)
[time=90] (upbeat music) (upbeat music)
[time=180] (upbeat music) (upbeat music) - Hi, I'm Kelly, senior pastor here at Blackhawk, and it is great to be with you again.
[time=192] If you've been watching the broadcast lately, you know that we have started a series, a five-week series that has been a close look at what we at Blackhawk here call our five E's.
[time=203] Five E's.
[time=205] Five very important truths.
[time=208] Our five E's go so far beyond just words that begin with E.
[time=213] These are biblical truths.
[time=215] These are scriptural principles that we believe God's called us as believers, individually and as a church to live by, to own and embrace and give ourselves to wholeheartedly.
[time=226] Three weeks ago, we began with a look at this idea of exaltation.
[time=231] God's call on my life as a believer and yours, if you know him, to live lives of worship, not just to come and worship on a Sunday, not just 60 minutes of God's centered living, but a whole week, 24/7, a willingness on your part in mind
[time=250] to in where we go and what we do, be it a carpool or our job or life in the neighborhood to be a people that really give ourselves to lives of worship, lives that honor him. Week two brought us to the second E, which was evangelism. And around here these days with his help, we're trying to encourage everybody to see in the midst of every day in the people that he brings across our path to see every encounter as a divine appointment, every encounter a divine appointment, not a mistake, not an act of fate, not an interruption, but a divinely orchestrated opportunity for you and I to point another toward faith. We realize that that appointment might last 20 seconds. It also may last two hours.
[time=300] You have no idea. I have no idea who he's going to bring across my path.
[time=304] It may be a relationship that I get to develop and enjoy for years.
[time=308] It might be someone I never see again, but in every situation he gives us the chance to view that encounter as an opportunity to represent him, to share our faith, to extend kindness, and we're trying our best with his help to view it that way.
[time=323] Today we come to our third E, encouragement, authentic living in biblical community, honest, genuine living in relationship with others in this thing called the biblical community, a church, the way God designed a church to be. And as you listen today, I want to challenge you with this. You'll hear us as we go through several of the components that make up a biblical community.
[time=350] The last one we get to gave us an opportunity this last week when we were together to really challenge our people with this idea of sharing. Sharing. That's right. Like little kids do with toys. I mean, God's called us and we see it in that early church in Acts 2. We see how they were willing to take the things that God had given them, whether it was property, whether it was material goods, I mean, whatever it is that God had given them, when those in the family, when those in that biblical community would have need, it was the Christians, it was the family of God, it was this faithful band of Christ followers who would willingly share what God had given them to meet the physical needs of others. And so we've challenged our people. It has been amazing. We challenged them to think about what it is that they might be willing to give, to share with those in need in this family, in other church families around this community. And I tell you, the phone's been ringing, the emails have been coming in. We've had a lawn mower, we've had a second hand van, we've had a computer, we've had a desktop laser printer, we've had $100 here, we've had kids deciding to give money from a garage sale. I mean, people are really beginning to catch the spirit of what it means to share.
[time=434] And so I wanted to just ask you, you may have some things. I don't know who you are, I don't know how much God has given you. I'm realizing personally that although I just, I just personally have this much and I may not consider that a lot, I'm realizing there are people in my life and there are folks in the family of God who have, who have this much. And so no matter, no matter how much you have, would you be willing to bring whatever that is and allow us to distribute that to those in genuine, legitimate need? We would love to have you be a part of that. So email us on the website www.ww.w, Mr. W, sorry.
[time=478] BlackhawkMinistries.org. And you can email me or any of the other pastors and you can kind of just share with us what it is you'd like to do. We would love to have you jump in on this with us. We hope we can come alongside and help you experience the joy of sharing.
[time=512] We are going to see the key.
[time=1270] Remember the Bible I got on the bus?
[time=1274] Let me read what he wrote on the inside cover.
[time=1278] What a pleasure it is for me to give you a copy of the Bible.
[time=1282] The words in this book will show you how to personally know the person in this book.
[time=1286] That knowledge gives eternal life. Learn to know them as your closest best friend.
[time=1294] I thank God for putting this man in my life to teach me what it is like to be authentic in my relationship with God.
[time=1306] So you see it really doesn't matter whether this community of believers is gathered around the campfire next to a river in West Virginia or whether the community of believers is a group of 10 or 12 in a living room one night, whether the community of believers is here in a room like this amazing things happen.
[time=1330] God uses our oneness. God uses our community.
[time=1334] God uses the love that we have for him and each other to draw others to himself.
[time=1342] It's a powerful picture, authentic living in biblical community. And this morning that's what we are going to look at.
[time=1350] Let me invite you if you would to just open your Bibles to Acts chapter 2.
[time=1354] Acts chapter 2.
[time=1358] And we are thankful. If you're here this morning and you're here for the first time or you're here for the second time, third time, whatever it might be we are so grateful for the opportunity to share this time with you. And this is a great day for you to be here. You find us in the middle of a five week series where we are attempting to just revisit and we do it often. We just revisit the scriptures and the things that just seem so very, very important to us.
[time=1386] Around here there's five that we give ourselves to. And this morning we come to our third E, encouragement, authentic living in biblical community. And any time around here we have a discussion about or think about what it means to live in biblical community we often think about and associate it with a symbol. And this is the symbol right here and I absolutely love this symbol. I hope all of you can see it. Maybe you can, maybe you can't but I sure wish there was a way I could like put it on a swivel but this is the deal right here.
[time=1418] I see this picture. I look at those three guys holding hands standing there in a circle. I think they're guys. There's no, there's a lack of hair so we'll just call them guys. I see these guys holding hands in this circle and I just think you know there's some things about this picture that just immediately jump out at me. One thing that immediately jumps out at me whenever I see this picture is I think and I sense that these three guys are together.
[time=1442] And I know that might seem obvious but I mention it to you this morning because so many times in my life personally I sense myself drifting this way and so many times in my life I come in contact with people who have drifted this way see so many times there is this thing in us that wants to kind of move us toward living life, living the Christian life, what?
[time=1466] Alone. And it's not the way God wired us.
[time=1470] It's not the way God made us. We were created in His image and He didn't mean for you to face life alone. He didn't mean for you to face the challenges and the circumstances of this world alone.
[time=1482] He made us in His image. The Father.
[time=1486] The Son. And the Holy Spirit who lived together in rich community. And He made you and I that way. We weren't meant to face life alone. No, we were meant to face life together says in Ecclesiastes. You don't have to turn there. You can't if you'd like.
[time=1502] Ecclesiastes chapter 4 verse 12 it says this and if one can overpower Him who is alone and come on you know and I know that in all honesty in all sincerity it's pretty easy to be overtaken.
[time=1518] When we're out there on the limb alone when that's the way we choose to live life when that's the path we walk down it gets pretty easy for the enemy to come along and just clean our clock. He says if one can overpower him who was alone two can resist him.
[time=1538] A chord of three strands is not quickly torn apart it's not a strength in numbers.
[time=1546] You know what else I see here? I see here a picture of humility.
[time=1550] Look at that. I see a picture of humility here as I see these three. Why do you say humility?
[time=1558] Well, several things. First of all they're men and they're holding hands and sometimes that's kind of an awkward deal for a guy but I see these three guys and you know what? I don't know what their day's been like. I don't know where they've been but something has drawn them to this point of surrender.
[time=1574] Something has brought them to this point and it's the same thing that brings you and I at times to these points where we just want to grab onto a hand and say oh God please help because I don't know what to do here.
[time=1586] I'm not quite sure which way to go. I see humility as these three guys come into a circle hold hands and pray.
[time=1594] I kind of equate men praying with men asking for directions.
[time=1598] Sometimes you know we just have got to give up and say I don't know and I am lost and I'm a little scared here and I love that picture of togetherness.
[time=1610] I love that picture of humility but most of all I love the picture when I see this image of these three guys and I know these words are all very similar but I love the fact that they are thirdly one. It's just one it's just one deal people.
[time=1630] It's just one thing there. I look at that and I just see one I see unity. I see a tight bondedness. I see harmony.
[time=1638] I see no break in the circle and what amazes me when I look at this and I see these guys together holding hands praying and I see this circle that's unbroken when you step back from a very practical perspective and you realize maybe who these three guys are where they come from how they're wired and yet in the midst of real life doesn't even matter. I mean think about it this guy could be a Democrat this guy could be a Republican this guy could be hoping for a Ross Perot comeback down here on the end but you know what it doesn't matter because there they are one that guy down there on the far end way down there on the end that guy down there he could be a guy that really really likes really has a preference for contemporary Christian worship live CDs you know the unplug deal this guy in the middle you know he might have a real preference for the classics for the more traditional hymns of the faith and this kid on the end you know what he might even be like a 19 18 17 year old who likes Christian rock alternative Christian music he likes to jump up and down when he sings and he actually bumps into the people next to him and there they are just one holding hands realizing the need to be together you know what this guy over here on the end he could be a guy that likes dimly lit rooms with candles and monks chanting in the background stained glass and robes this guy down here he could like big rooms with lots of lights and the volume turned like really way up high and the guy in the middle he could maybe just care Alaska's he just likes being with people so it doesn't really matter if they're in robes or bright lights but it doesn't matter see because when it gets right down to it they're just gonna grab each other's hands and they're gonna be what say it one that's right this guy could be a caleric right here this guy could be a sanguine right here this guy could be melancholy over there personality wise the way they relate completely different I left one out what was the one I left out guys from sounds like spit yeah flag and phlegmatic there's no phlegmatic in there but that's alright if a phlegmatic wasn't there then he'd probably be working never mind we won't get into all what the phlegmatic would be thinking but you look at that this guy could like the NIV this guy could like the King James this guy could have a preference for the NAS the guy in the end could be pre-trip the guy in the middle could be mid-trip the guy on this end could be post-trip but in the end it doesn't matter because in the end they're gonna hold hands and be what one we're all people we are all so very different and yet despite our radically different wiring and makeup despite the drastic differences and they are at times drastic in what many of us would prefer we are to be the scriptures teach together humble and most importantly one this oneness is exactly what he had in mind when in the scriptures he says John 1835 by this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love if you have love if you express and show love for each other for one another by this all men will know in the way that you not criticize not harbor better feelings not stand back in the corner and whisper about what's not right and what should be better no they'll know that we're his by the way that we love each other Philippians 2 3 to 4 cuts right to the chase it says do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit but with humility of mind let each of you regard one another as more important not equally important no you and I considering each other more important than himself do not merely look out for your own personal differences your own personal interests your own personal opinions no but also for the interests of others we know that we have passed out of death into life John says in 1 John 3 because we love the brethren he who does not who does not love abides in death everyone who hates his brother is a murderer it says in verse 15 and you know that no murderer has eternal life writing in him we know love by this verse 16 that goes on and says this that he laid down his life for us and we ought to lay down our lives for each other Romans 15 Romans 15 we're going to start at verse 5 it says now may the God who gives perseverance and encouragement grant you to be of the same mind with each other according to Christ Jesus that with one accord you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ you know the church stumbles you know the church gets into trouble people when in the way that we conduct ourselves in the way that we live our lives and the way that we come together we lose that one voice thing and that one voice thing isn't about me it's not about the guy who stands here it's not what he's talking about he's talking about a voice he's talking about a spirit he's talking about a heart attitude that is completely and absolutely united I love you you love me we've got differences there's things we would prefer but you know what when it gets right down to it because an on-looking world will know that he is who he is by the way we love each other
[time=2016] you win I'll defer to you and you'll defer to me and we'll do everything within our power
[time=2026] to stand united in harmony and together look what it says in John 17 probably one of the greatest passages that speaks to this issue of unity and oneness Jesus in his high priestly prayer says in John 17 20 I do not ask there it is on the screen I do not ask on behalf of these alone he's there with the disciples Jesus in essence kind of points to them the 12 and says hey Father Father in heaven I do not ask on behalf of these alone but also for those for those also who believe in me through their word through the word of the disciples through the work of the disciples which was in time the birthing of the church which in time brought you and I to faith he's referring to us there that they may all be one even as thou father art in me and I and thee that they also may be in us that the world may believe there's that thought again that the world may believe that thou did sin me and he says in 22 and the glory which thou hast given me I have given to them that they may be one just as we are one father I and them and thou and me that they may be perfected it says in unity that the world may know there we are again that the world may know that you did sense me and did love them even as thou did love me together people that's the picture humble and one completely unified no breaks no fractures that kind of a mindset this oneness this deep love for each other this willingness to prefer and choose you over me this unity and harmony of hard in life is what what is what makes up a biblical community write that down a biblical community a people that are truly one write that down a biblical community we want to look at that this morning I want to invite you to just come with me as we make our way through the scriptures and highlight some of the facets some of the components the characteristics if you will of what a biblical community really looks like what a family of Christ followers according to the scriptures what is it that they really give
[time=2170] themselves to and how is it that they give themselves to it what kind of a picture is painted there well let's look a biblical community what it looks like acts chapter 2 thousands and thousands have come to faith one of the first sermons ever given has been delivered by Peter and now the church is a blaze things are happening in Jerusalem the next two verse 42 we get our first look at what this community of Christ followers actually looked like and what they actually did says there and they were continually devoting themselves verse 42 to the apostles teaching and to fellowship to the breaking of bread and to prayer and everyone verse 43 kept feeling a sense of awe and many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles and all those who had believed were together and had all things in common and they began selling their property and possessions and were sharing them with all as anyone might have need and day by day continuing with one mind in the temple and breaking bread from house to house they were taking their meals together with gladness and sincerity of heart praising God and having favor with all the people don't miss this and because they were together because they were given to the things mentioned above and because they were continuously devoted to this life of loving him and loving each other the Lord was adding to their number day by day those who were being saved that's evangelism people one of the greatest forms of evangelism one of the greatest ways we've just seen it two or three times one of the greatest ways to genuinely connect with the world that today is lost and searching is to be the family of God in a way that says to them wow something really special goes on with those people in that place and in their lives community together oneness so let's look and see a family of Christ followers a real church is going to be committed is going to be truly committed to some things and I want to show you this morning what that looks like a true biblical community will be continually it says devoted to several things number one you see it right there in verse 42 you can write these things down a true biblical community will be continually devoted to number one authoritative teaching authoritative teaching and they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles teaching people understand this by authoritative teaching what we mean is the teaching of this the scriptures that is what the apostles gave them the word of God authoritative teaching isn't about personal opinion and you see too many times that sneaks into settings like this it's not personal opinion it's not philosophy it's not cute stories in a poem it is the word of God being proclaimed it's the word of God being explained it's the word of God being delivered in such a way that it makes sense and is actually made able to be applied in the life of Christ followers like you and me and we don't do that perfectly here we're still learning about that we're going to keep giving ourselves to that process but that's the intent that's the heart that's the desire every week to give you in practical meaningful ways the truth of God's word first Peter 2 2 go ahead and turn there if you've got your Bibles if you don't look on with somebody nearby maybe look what it says in first Peter back toward the back of your New Testament it describes the mindset you know what it describes the attitude that you and I should have Peter says in first Peter chapter 2 as it relates to our approach to the scriptures as it relates to your willingness in mind to be taught the scriptures it says in first Peter chapter 2 verse 1 therefore putting aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisy and envy and all slander like newborn babes go ahead and just picture that for a moment maybe you've got one right now maybe you've had one recently maybe you're about to have one but you know you've seen him in the past like newborn babes longing for the pure milk and you've seen that picture you've heard that cry you've sensed that little one if he could or she could say it there saying give it to me now and do whatever you got to do woman man whoever's taking care of me here get it to me because I want it I need it and he says that's exactly the mindset that is the picture he paints like newborn babes long for the pure milk of the word that buy it you may grow in respect to salvation you understand how powerful it is just this right here you know I understand how I say this it continues to amaze me but literally everywhere I go the grocery store the gas station a ball game the mall it doesn't matter where I go kind gracious people are willing to come up to me and say hey thank you you know we watch the Bible hour or I watch the Bible hour and let me tell you this many times yes they are people that watch as they get dressed to go to their church and that's great I can't tell you something often times and I think even in increasing amounts I'll have the privilege of having conversation with this guy or this gal and they don't go to church they will in those conversations even at times admit that they're far from God they haven't darkened the door in years may not even be planning on it but what they say is this and as much as they appreciate our worship teams and as much as they appreciate the dramas which serve a purpose they inevitably inevitably say something along the lines of wow you know what you guys talk about it just kind of gets me they say there's something about it that just kind of interests me and that's what the word of God does it's sharper than a two-edged sword and these people this family of first believers were continually devoted to getting as much of it as they could they were also devoted to fellowship right that down family fellowship continuously coming together the body of Christ gathered this first century church in light of all that was on the line in light of the persecution in light of the torture in light of the murders that would take place they would not stop coming together they were going to meet when it was time to meet look what it says in Hebrews 10 God gives you an I a word here that would indicate that was exactly the kind of mindset that he wanted for them and it is exactly the kind of mindset that he longs for you and I to possess Hebrews 10 24 and let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and good deeds not forsaking how are we going to stimulate each other to love and good deeds by not forsaking our own assembling together as is the habit of some we're talking about a habit here again I realize there are people at the race today and that's okay they don't have a habit maybe of missing we're not talking about some legalistic standard people that puts a thing up on the wall and says you've got to be here every week because that's what good Christians do and when you're not here we're going to come track you down and find out why no we're not talking about that we're talking about the bent we're talking about the character that that which characterizes your approach to this family and this family this first family you know what if you asked one of them and this is just the truth I'm just giving it to you straight if you asked one of them why it was that maybe they weren't with the family on a given Sunday you very well may have heard one of them say well you know what they took our brother last week and they killed him and they told us as they were killing him that if we ever came back they would do the same to us and we were scared and we're sorry but we're back come what may we're here because we want to be with the family now you asked that same question today and I've even heard it recently well you know the weather is nicer now and all wow and that's not just you I mean that's me at times that's thoughts that run through my mind thoughts that completely diminish what's really really true and here's the point here's what's really really true then and today hey people those folks in this early church they desperately needed each other they lived in fear of their life they lived in the midst of one of the most amazing battles that's ever been waged they lived in a setting where they desperately needed to know that you and you and you and you that we were really in this together
[time=2780] and they weren't about to miss the teaching of God's Word they weren't about to miss the chance to
[time=2786] to do that together and yes circumstances have changed in some sense but I want to tell you something you know please hear me on this you know why I you know why I like to be here you know why I look forward to you all of you walking through these doors please hear me it has absolutely nothing to do with attendance it has nothing to do what you reach into your pocket and give I need to see you I need to know that you're still in this with me I need to know that in the midst of all that we face in the midst of all that we fight against in the midst of all that comes against you and I every day I look forward to those doors opening and you coming every week not because that's what good Christians do but because I need to see you it's like me coming home at night maybe you do this maybe you don't but there's times I come home late at night after a really really hard day and the lights are out and everybody's in bed and sometimes I'll just go bed to bed they ever do that just go bed to bed and you know there's something about their faces something about the way they lay there there's something about whether it's my wife or my kids sometimes late at night after a really hard day going bed to bed leaves you feeling like wow you know what I can do this I'll go ahead and go to sleep and get up tomorrow and do it again as long as I know that you know we're in this together so I believe scripture calls you and I to come to church and I believe you should be here every opportunity you have as a habit because we need each other desperately
[time=2888] they were continually devoted to communion keep going on through that verse there Acts chapter 2 verse 42 see what it says there and they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles teaching and to fellowship to the breaking of bread which is referenced there to the Lord's table privileged opportunity we have in the family of God to come together periodically and celebrate and remember and rejoice and be grateful for what he did for you and for me and every time we do it you should be there 1 Corinthians 11 write it down 1 Corinthians 11 makes it clear that that is something that you and I as followers of Christ are to give ourselves to thoroughly and every time we do it we should do it together they were continually devoted to prayer and they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles teaching and to fellowship to the breaking of bread and to prayer on all fronts scriptures seem to indicate 1 Timothy 2 which talks about the gathering of the church in that day 1 Timothy 2 write that down reminds us to pray as a family corporately as a body when we come together we're to be given to this idea of communication and communication and a heartfelt response to God personally Philippians 4 write that down read that whole chapter it's packed with encouragement and commands and admonishments to be a people who would personally in our own lives be a people of prayer don't forget that in Psalm 5 Psalm 57 Psalm 88 Psalm 108 and Psalm 119 it also says that it's a great way to start your day talking with him bringing the day to him asking him questions begging for guidance and strength many of those same passages say it's also a good way to end the day and don't forget 1 Thessalonians 5-7 teen says pray without what so really it's a all day thing a mind set an attitude that never loses sight of him and who he is and the joy and the beauty of being connected to and in relationship with him they were continually as well living in awe write that down back to Acts 2 and everyone verse 43 and everyone kept feeling a sense of awe and many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostle interesting word awe you might want to write this down the Greek word is phobos P H O B O S phobos and it meant this watch phobos or awe is a holy reverential fear realized when we sense realized when they saw his or sensed his presence and saw or witnessed his work we live in awe when we sense his presence when we see him at work and there is a holy kind of reverential oh my goodness that kind of comes over you when you see that and when you sense that okay don't miss this what else would you expect from a people who lived with him who walked with him who talked with him who listened to him 24/7 they're doing their very best to live in the presence of God they're continuously devoted to his truth and when you're mind and when your spirit are geared toward him when you start and end your day with him I mean when that's even close to be in the picture baptisms take on a whole new meaning you leave like we left here Wednesday night I wish all of you could have been here you leave a baptism and you're just going wow what an amazing thing to sense God's presence and to see his work in the life of another you come in here to a morning of worship like we've had and you hear Corbin teaches God of wonders beyond all galaxies and you hear the room just fill up with praise and if you're even remotely in the ball game you just thank God you're driving down the road like me you know just during the week it's as loud as you can get it the windows are thumping you mean you're just you're lost in worship I'm rolling down my window just to have some place to put my arm I'm so excited you see the sky had a friend call me this week who said you know you ever just see the skies you see the clouds and the blue and you ever just go wow yeah if you're in that ball game you know what if you're not if you don't if you're not attempting to live a life of worship if you don't walk with him and talk with him and listen to him it's just a day it's just a job it's just a family it's just a just another deal phobos less there's no awe but oh to walk with him like these people did and to give themselves to him didn't know lastly and we'll end with this they were continually devoted to sharing and I had him put that in big bold letters because I just wanted to get you to think about this this week this biblical community this this this this faithful band of Christ followers who faced the world and gave themselves to him and each other they had this uncanny commitment to each other in this arena of sharing and I don't mean to sound condescending I'm not viewing you like three-year-olds but listen they shared they played well with others and they did it really really well Acts 2 44 and those who believed were together and had all things in common and they began selling their property and possessions and were sharing them with all as anyone might have need go to Acts 4 real quick. Acts 4 look at the end of 32 and not one of them claimed that anything belonged to him was his own but all things were common property to them for their verse 34 for there was not a needy wow here's a statement for there was not a needy person among them for all who were owners of land or houses sell them and bring the proceeds of the sales and lay them at the apostles feet and they would be distributed to each as any had need contrary to what some might suggest this was not the beginning of communal living this was not a primitive form of communism no it wasn't like everybody sold everything they had and threw it in one pot no there were homeowners and there were landowners and they continued to be home and landowners but as there would be a need those who had it would get it because that person sitting next to you meant that much because you know in that day you never knew if you'd see him again and so I just leave it with you this morning to consider would you be willing it says in 1 John 3 17 but whoever has the world's goods and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him how does the love of God how does the love of God abide in him they were selling houses in land which was far more sacrificial than 10 or 15 percent of their income it meant liquidating capital assets that could be irreplaceable that kind of thinking challenges one's personal sense of security and it stretches one's faith and that biblical community it meant so much to them that they were willing and it wasn't just you know houses and land I'm sure it was food and I'm sure it was a sweatshirt I'm sure it was some sandals I'm sure it was a lot of things but I want to ask you this week as we leave how about you and I'm talking to everybody you know because everybody's got something you got something and there's probably somebody I'll bet you in the family of God who who's got a little less and so I want to just throw it out to you this week if you'd like to share something kids I'm talking to you students I'm talking to you moms and dads if you'd like to share something this week let us know you don't have to come lay it at our feet like they did there but if you just gave us a call if you just shot us a line on the email just came by and dropped it off if you want to give a car give a car if you want to give some land give some land if you want to give somebody who needs an extra set of jeans some pants do it whatever God would land your heart it's part of a family that's in need all the time whatever that might be would you be willing to contact us and let us do our best we can handle it a number of different ways we just love to see you as a family catch a little bit of that biblical community spirit that acts to mindset and let's stay devoted to the teaching of this let's stay committed to being together week after week after week because we need to see each other's faces let's remember communion let's be a people given to prayer let's walk with him so we can be in awe of him and let's share if we can help you do that let us if you want to just share on your own do it would you stand let's pray father as we leave this morning know how incredibly grateful we are for these faithful people in the model that they left give a strength clarity of heart and mind courage to be that kind of a people so completely given to you and so devoted to each other that others are drawn and we'll thank you for it in your son's name we pray amen
[time=3554] you