[time=0] Well good morning church. It's good to see my family whether you're in the room in
[time=6] one of our locations around campus or watching us online. We are gathering even by scattering. Have we not noticed that during this season? We've been all over the place yet we are one and it is because of the joy of the Lord that is our strength. We learned from Nehemiah and it's so true. We have learned that in very powerful ways. The joy of the Lord is our strength that holds us together and it gets us through tough times and maybe you brought some of those tough times with you today. Maybe you like me are finding it at times very difficult
[time=38] to have joy in such a crazy uncertain season. And that my friends is exactly
[time=44] why we're in a series of messages called refresh. We want to refresh ourselves on just the truth of God's word. We want to refresh ourselves on the fruit of the Spirit of God because we certainly know in a time like today that if we are going to thrive in the midst of a season in which we live like
[time=64] this one we are going to have to have some fruit from the Lord because the fruit of self doesn't really get us very far. Say amen if you agree with me. I'm glad you're here. I'm glad you're leaning into that. Let's continue in this series.
[time=76] It's Galatians chapter 5. Meet me there. Galatians chapter 5 and today we're going to be in our third week of this series. You can catch up by going to blackhawkministries.org/sermons. We're going through the fruit of the Spirit and it's singular because you get all of it when you know Christ. And I explained that at great length recently but we've going through these lists of nine pieces of the fruit of the Spirit. A package deal that comes to us in all of these amazing forms starting with love then now joy. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. And if you're not singing that song in your head enough yet that I taught you in the first week. Maybe I need to teach you again but I'll hold off for today. Today I want to teach you about consuming joy. Consuming joy. Galatians chapter 5 and verse 22. Let's look there together. Galatians 5 verse 22 a part of that in
[time=130] this passage the 16 through 26. We see this context by the way of the fight between the flesh and the fruit of the Spirit. The flesh of me, the flesh of self and the flesh of sin versus the fruit of the Spirit. And they are at war.
[time=145] Have you noticed that lately? When you look at the world around you today have you noticed that there is a fight. There is a battle and it's way bigger than anything we can win on our own and that is why this fight is so important to learn about but we get to be a part of the victory that's been won through Jesus Christ because of the fruit of the Spirit. Now let's go through that list and I want to just talk about the one today. Joy. Galatians 5 22 says but the fruit of the Spirit is joy. God may you just bless the reading of your word even those few
[time=177] words. God as we break it apart and Lord now as we go throughout the rest of your word to us the rest of scripture to look for how the same word is used.
[time=186] May we gain a new and better understanding of true joy that is consuming and we pray it in Jesus' name. Take your word now and make it a seed in our heart that just sprouts forth in life in Jesus' name and all guys people said. Amen. I pray I prayed for you all week that those of you who think joy is something that you can't attain that those of you who feel like you've lost your joy. I declare in Jesus' name it's time for you to find your joy. It's time to get your joy back and it's not that you get to get it back. It's that you already have it in Jesus Christ and I'm going to teach you how that's true but it doesn't always look like we think it does because joy a lot of times we think of it as a feeling. We think of it as a destination. We think of joy as a
[time=230] circumstantial exterior kind of thing that we feel when something good happens
[time=236] to us but in fact the word joy is chara in the Greek that we've just read. Galatians
[time=243] 5 22 and that word is a lot deeper in meaning than just something that you feel.
[time=248] That word literally means something that is supreme or consuming that leads to rejoicing and gladness. You get this picture of a cup that overflows. A joy
[time=259] that takes over. Hence my title consuming joy because I think in the world around this we're consumed at times by everything but the joy of the Lord. And so today I pray that God's joy would overflow in you and so I'm going to show you several passages in Scripture or this same Greek word that's used in Galatians 5 is used throughout Scripture both in Old and New Testament even across
[time=282] languages. Notice that God's word has harmony and unity. I used to study God's word and look at it from a critical lens looking for all the contradictions but as I dug into God's word as I dug into who Jesus is as I asked God to show Himself to
[time=297] me. The Bible promises us God shows us that if we draw near to Him He draws near us. It shows us that if we seek Him we will find Him. And what I found in God's
[time=307] word is that there is such a unity. There is such a harmony. There is such a cohesiveness. There is such a foundation that is so eternal. And we'll see it
[time=317] today in today's message Lord willing as we look at joy. And so I was thinking about times where I have felt like I was just going to burst with joy because let's start with the feeling that is joy. And certainly I had one of those moments today. Thanks for allowing me to indulge for a moment in continuing that thought because one of those times you know I'm a father of a little boy and two now little girls and it was when my little Callie Joy was born when I
[time=344] became a hashtag girl dad for the very first time and I'll never forget that
[time=350] moment. So I want to show you a picture of baby Callie and baby Kevin as it might seem. Check this picture out. And I'll never forget looking into those little eyes and her opening her eyes and seeing me and me seeing her. And I knew again that my life was forever changed. And I just couldn't contain it. It just overwhelmed me. I just felt like I could just curl up in a ball and just swallow and joy. So you don't even have words. That doesn't even make sense does it. But that's the kind of joy that I had in that moment. Maybe even today as well. But it's the kind of joy. Listen that God has for your life. And I'm well aware there are people in the room who maybe have not experienced the joy of the Lord in a
[time=390] really long time. There are people in the room who've lost loved ones. There are people in the room who are feeling consumed by everything but joy at the moment. And so allow God's word. Allow the word of Jesus your Savior to just pour
[time=405] over your heart today. I want to give you four statements about joy and give us four different scriptures that will give you a different take on joy. But it might not be the definition you thought of. Statement number one is that joy is a process. Flip with me to James chapter one. James chapter one. Go towards the end of your Bible. James chapter one. And you know when you hear process you kind of don't think of joy. When I hear we're gonna process something. I don't think of joy being the result. But we learn from scripture that joy is a process. It's
[time=435] something that we we gain as we dig into who God is. The fruit of His Spirit.
[time=441] Because the whole point of this series is listen you can't get these things on your own. These are not the fruit of self. They're the fruit of the Spirit. You need Jesus in your life. And maybe you've been running from Him and maybe it's time to stop running. And so let's look at James chapter one verses two through four. James says count it all joy. Carah in the Greek. It's the same word that we
[time=462] see in Galatians 5 22. Count it all joy my brothers when you meet trials of various kinds. Now I don't know about you but I don't when I run into a trial think of joy. I don't typically associate the two things. Yet that's what James is teaching us about. So you see the process and now you see it unfold. Count it all joy my brothers when you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your fate produces steadfastness and let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete. Lacking in nothing. And so joy
[time=496] is a process. And in verse two I like that it says various trials because if you run into some various trials in your own life I know I sure have. And here's the thing I know about trials is that we're not all going through the same thing but we are all going through something. And you brought your something with you today and it's heavy on your heart and it's probably a pretty big inhibitor when it comes to your ability to walk in the joy of the Lord and it to be your strength. And the thing about those trials a lot of times we wish we could trade trials. It's like well I wish I could have their trial. I wish their struggle would be my struggle. If I could just get rid of my struggle I'd even take their struggle. I'll take another struggle. But what I've learned in life is that there are trials of poverty where I don't have enough but then there are trials of plenty where I've got plenty but I'm still empty on the inside. Can I get a name in if you know what I'm talking about? There are trials some of your single and you feel like your trial is your loneliness. There's trials of loneliness but those of you who are married it doesn't take you too long to be in a marriage to realize that there are also trials of companionship. Are you with me this morning? Mary people you better be nodding your head I'm no I'm not alone in that one. There are trials that are varying. There are trials that are unique. There are trials that are different but Jesus promised us that we will have trials but we can still take heart we can still have peace because He's overcome the world that is producing those trials and that's what the fruit of the spirit is all about but it's a process and so you can't trade your trial sorry I'm not here to teach you how to trade your trial I'm here to teach you today that you can have joy in the midst of your trial joy despite your trial that it's a process that we are in because Jesus has won the victory but we don't always feel victorious do we? And that's the process that we find ourselves in verses 3-4 you see the process of of steadfastness that your faith produces and then the steadfastness will have its full effect because it's a process and one day we're gonna be perfect and complete how many of you feel like you're there don't raise your hand I'm gonna give you a hand you're not there you have not arrived you're not where you used to be praise God but you yet have not arrived but one day we will because Jesus is on
[time=626] the throne and He's coming back and He'll make everything right but we're in process in the mean time and write it down this way verses 3-3-4 remind us of
[time=635] this thought that joy is a practice before it is a place joy is a practice before it is a place and in the strength of the Lord by the fruit of His Spirit we can go through this process practicing putting on the armor of God practicing in putting on His way of thinking His way of seeing before we get to the place that is joy joy is not a place joy is a person and His name is Jesus and His Spirit and dwells us and because of that we can live in joy because joy lives in us it's a big difference in thinking of it as a destination that you get to and there's a difference between there's a couple of distinctions I want to make number one is the distinction between discovering joy and the distinction between developing joy discovering versus developing a lot of times we think we're just gonna happen upon joy you know if I could get that relationship fixed if my kids would start acting right if I could get that job or if I could quit that job or if I could get enough money or if I you can fill in the blanks I'll discover joy I'll just walk up and because of my circumstance joy is here but joy is not a destination joy is not a place joy is
[time=703] a process joy is a trust and joy is not a discovery it's a development as we go
[time=709] along but the beauty of that development is you have every bit of the joy you will ever need in Christ Jesus you get all of it but a lot of times even though I have it inside of me in this the the fight between the flesh and the fruit in this it just because I have it inside of me doesn't mean I walk in it doesn't mean I experience it doesn't mean that I live in such a way that it overflows in my life doesn't mean that I live in such a way that I'm trusting it so much that I'm at peace and content even when circumstances would lead me in a different direction and this world today will remind us of that in a
[time=743] plentiful manner but here's what I want you to see when we when we don't distinct make a distinction between discovering developing also between trials and and in temptations temptations there's a lot of times we'll use the
[time=758] wrong tools when we don't make a distinction between trials and temptations we'll end up doing the opposite of what we should do let me explain a temptation is something that's like in the list the fruit the fruit of self that we looked at because before the fruit of the spirit is this list of the fruit of the flesh and it's all these horrible things that we've all walked in and those things are temptations and by God's strength we're we're called to resist those things but instead be pulled towards the fruit of the spirit but on the opposite end a trial is often something that we wouldn't accept we would try to reject and resist a trial have you ever done that in your prayer line like lord if you'll just get this trial off of my plate then everything would be fine but a lot of times we fail to make the distinction about what true joy is meaning that we will end up accepting that which we are called to resist and resisting that which we are called to accept example
[time=809] maybe the trial that you're going through maybe God wants you to stop praying God get this trial away from me and change your prayer to God help me find joy and contentment and peace and your purpose in the middle of this trial and therefore
[time=824] saying God I accept what's around me I accept the circumstance because write this down because God my friends wants to use your pain as a platform write that down God wants to use your pain as a platform as something he can build on as something he can take his promises and his purpose and do a new thing as they are 43 19 and 20 behold I'm doing a new thing will you not perceive it and a lot of times I won't perceive it because I'm praying it away and I won't just say God sometimes the new thing that you're doing may come and be built on the pain platform that I'm going through these trials may become the very thing that you want to use to bring joy in my life trust in my life faith in my life in a way I've never experienced before joy gives you a new way of seeing all of those things that often hold us back joy my friends it's not a product of what people say about you joy my friends it's not a product of the bank account being full joy is not a product of relationships in your life going perfectly joy is not a product of any exterior circumstance at all joy is a product of the peace of
[time=890] God the person of God the spirit of God being on the inside of us and bubbling over consuming us all the way to the outside it's not outside in it's inside out that is joy but that means seeing the process of trusting God even through our
[time=906] pain and God just put it on my heart so heavy I just I can't bypass this it was
[time=912] just this morning I don't maybe it's for me maybe it's for you I don't know but I think one of the biggest inhibitors of joy is not being willing to walk in forgiveness and grace and I believe somebody in the room has forgiveness that you need to extend maybe even to someone who didn't ask you for it maybe to someone who's not even here anymore maybe you need to forgive a spouse who hurts you and said something and you just haven't let that thing go that they said maybe you need to forgive a co-worker who they don't even see that they did it but man they just ripped your heart out maybe you need to forgive a child or a grandchild or a mom or a dad or a grandparent who hurts you that may not even be here anymore for you to go sit down with but it's time for you for you and your faith and walking in the fruit to say I'm gonna choose to forgive them because forgiveness is one of the greatest things that will free us up to walk enjoy let me go deeper some of you're in the room and you still haven't forgiven yourself I just want to let that sit for a minute because you're stuck in your past something that you did and you still haven't chosen to forgive yourself the way that God in Christ has forgiven you and some of you need to offer the same kind of grace towards God not because he did anything wrong but because maybe you still aren't trusting him enough that he does want to use your pain as a platform that he is a good good father even when bad bad things happen in our life I don't know what that forgiveness looks like for you today but I encourage you to walk in it and you'll find that you'll be freed to walk in joy because joy is a process and the more we display the
[time=1005] gospel especially in times of pain the more opportunities will have to declare the gospel if you've been asking God to give you an opportunity to declare the gospel to share your faith with your friends display it especially in times of pain because it's like a megaphone to those people around you and they're watching you and one of the ways you can do that that's why we're pushing you to this survey it's because we want to hear from you but mainly because listen church we won't be any better this fall than our volunteer teams are it churches a team sport I can't do everything your elders can't do everything your staff can't do everything you can't do everything I look around the room and so many of you just do everything but we're so much better together so let's display the gospel even though it's a tough time you may say well when I get through this I'll serve I'll walk in the joy of the Lord and share it start now I believe there's no better way to walk in the joy of the Lord in this process that joy truly is then to serve God even when it hurts and I pray that you can do that and God will give you the strength number two joy is a perspective it's not just a process it's a perspective flip back it's one page in my Bible maybe it's two or three in yours to Hebrews chapter 12 we're gonna see the same word same Greek word for joy again joy is a perspective Hebrews 12 1 and 2 and
[time=1075] joy is a perspective and you'll see this perhaps familiar scripture unpack a
[time=1081] perspective that maybe you've just been missing out on we often skip over part of this passage I know I have many years in my life Hebrews 12 1 and 2 says therefore since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses we just finish Hebrews 11 hall of fame of faith is these people who've lived out joy and faith in ways that are just astounding then here's what we do let us also lay aside every weight and sin which cling so closely and let us run with endurance the race that is underlying this part set before us you'll see it again in a moment the race that is set before us that means run your race listen quick side note quit trying to fulfill somebody else's calling quit trying to fulfill somebody else's purpose God has a purpose a unique one a unique calling for you it's run your race the run the race that is set before you not the race that is set before them the life that maybe you thought you would have or you wish you would have God has a specific race for you so run that one because when we try to fulfill the purpose of others we miss the potential and the promises that God wants us to live in for our own life as a whole other sermon let's keep going then set before us here's where's perspective I'm glad you asked verse two looking to Jesus or some versions say fixing your eyes on Jesus the founder and perfecter of our faith who for the joy there's the word for the joy that was underlined it again set before him set before him endured the cross despising the shame and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God before I go to the middle of those verses don't miss the end of this verse two God is on the throne God is still sovereign I know the world feels uncertain I know it feels like the enemy's winning I know it feels impossible to live in joy I know it doesn't seem like the church is winning I know that you feel like everything around you is crumbling but Jesus is at the right hand of the father he's never gonna be dethroned nothing and no one can knock you off of that throne and because of that we can take heart we can have joy but before that we see a process of perspective joy is a process but it's
[time=1203] also a perspective verse one run with endurance the race set before you that will give you some perspective but even more is verse two looking to Jesus or fixing your eyes on Jesus making Jesus the focus of your perspective fixing your
[time=1218] eyes on Jesus and here's the part maybe we often just kind of skip through it says who for the joy set before him same word overwhelming consuming rejoicing and
[time=1228] gladness who for the joy set before him endured the cross despising the shame Jesus didn't enjoy the cross he endured the cross Jesus didn't find joy in the
[time=1241] pain but he found joy in the purpose of the pain and I've found in life when it comes to pain when it comes to having the right perspective through pain that realizing my pain has a purpose that in God's economy pain is never wasted realizing that my pain has a purpose helps me see the potential of my process helps me see the promises of God as my lens and my perspective because a lot of times we go through pain and we feel like our pain is pointless you ever felt that way like this is just pointless pain God if you just take it away we could just move forward but listen my friends with God even the worst things in this life all the worst parts of our pain has a purpose and is for that reason that Jesus though he didn't enjoy the cross he knew that there was joy that was gonna come he knew that his purpose would be fulfilled he knew that while he was gonna suffer and bleed and die that he was gonna be buried in a tomb and after three days he would rise again and when he rose again he would win a victory over that painful process so that we can have a new perspective so that we can have the promises of God at our fingertips not because he needed it but because he knew we needed it and he was willing to do whatever it took to give it to us and maybe you needed to hear that take the perspective of Jesus you're not enjoying the process right now but you can hold on to you can have a perspective that sees the promises that sees the potential that sees the outcome Jesus didn't find joy in the obstacle but he certainly found joy in the outcome and so can you so let me ask you what has set before you what is set before you
[time=1336] what have you set before you the joy that was set before Jesus is what helped
[time=1342] him endure the cross it's with endurance we run the race that is set before us so what are you setting before you because joy is a point of view it's a perspective it's not the absence of pain and problems it's the presence of peace it's the presence of God if you don't get anything else I say don't miss this statement joy is a focus before it is a feeling joy is a focus before it is a
[time=1367] feeling we often think well I don't feel very joyful today so there's no joy in my life no if you know Jesus Christ if you're a son or a daughter of his joy lives inside of you we don't often feel it but listen there are so many times I don't do things or I do things that go contrary to my feelings usually my feelings leave me astray your heart will lead you astray that's why I taught you last week of love don't follow your heart because the Bible says in Jeremiah 17 your heart is deceitful and there's no cure for it and a lot of times our feelings will lead us astray but here's the thing I can't always choose my feelings people say choose joy let me break that phrase apart for just a minute there are chemical things there are medical things there are circumstantial things there's just life things that sometimes won't allow you to fully choose all of your feelings can I get a name in you don't hear that preach too often but it's true but here's what I want to teach you today that choosing joy doesn't mean choosing my feelings it means saying that no matter what feelings are present right now I choose my focus I can't always choose every feeling but I can choose my focus and the more I focus on the joy of the Lord I'll see that he wants to use my pain as a platform that I'm in process and my whole perspective changes when I follow that kind of spirit because the fruit of
[time=1443] self even the fruit of feelings will always lead us astray so maybe look to our focus before the feelings and let me give you three things when it comes to focus that you can get really led astray by and here's a good way to outline the the opposite of that the remedy to that have you ever heard the definition of joy joy oh why Jesus others yourself pretty good way of looking at it fixing your eyes looking to Jesus that's our perspective but a lot of times we look elsewhere three things that will get your focus off kilter number one is looking behind dwelling on the past you ever struggle with dwelling on the past
[time=1479] sometimes we get so stuck in the past and what was that we miss what could be we miss what God wants to do we miss the future that God has for us and our call as Christians is to let go of that which lies behind we don't forget it that's why we do communion we remember we remember the sacrifices of the past we even remember the the pain and the sin that that put Jesus on that cross we remember those tough things but we don't live there and sometimes we dwell in the past so much that it just leads to death of perspective death of focus so looking behind maybe that's your struggle number two is looking around comparison we live in such a comparison culture
[time=1518] such a comparison culture looking around you will often cause you to not look to Jesus and I've preached this sermon to you it's probably time to preach it again because we live in such a comparison culture but comparison always kills contentment just like dwelling in the past always leads to death of perspective comparison always kills contentment what we should do is compare ourselves to the holy standard of God realize how far short we've come and we will never be able to meet that standard and only compare ourselves to that but then say but how did God respond to that he didn't squash me like a bug I probably would have you should be glad I'm not God some of the knuckleheads I have to deal with me at the top of the list because the hardest person I'll ever lead is me the hardest person you'll ever lead is you I would probably just say let's start this thing over but God while we were yet sinners sent Christ and he died for us that's the perspective that we can have that's how much my God loves you and loves me that'll change your perspective that'll help you with the process that'll help you see your pain in a little bit of a different way so looking behind looking around stop comparing yourself to others and just fix your eyes on Jesus God didn't call you to be them he called you to follow him that's the beauty of following Jesus looking ahead looking ahead's number three sometimes how many of you're a visionary forward thinkers you're always living in the future that's me I'm that person and sometimes have you noticed that you really can't even plan five minutes ahead in this season of life much less five years it's driving me insane I'm a visionary guy I'm always thinking what's that gonna be five years from now what's that gonna be ten years from now I'm always pushing us ahead but I can't even get through the next five minutes without something drastically shifting these days and it's driving me crazy and here's what I've learned is that can often lead you to worry and anxiety which is totally contrary to the joy of the Lord that should be our strength as we walk in the spirit we get to a spot where worry kills any sense of wisdom and so if you're in a sense of worry stop it and how do you stop it look to Jesus it's all about your perspective look to him realize that he holds the future and you might find that I can take a breath that I haven't taken in a long time I'm preaching to Kevin today but I'm guessing I'm preaching to somebody else too so what's your struggle is it looking behind is it looking around it's looking ahead all of those things aren't bad enough themselves but they can certainly keep us from looking to Jesus but when we look to Jesus we always find joy number three thing I want to share with you joy is a process it was a perspective but joy is a priority Psalm chapter 16 look there with me in middle of your Bible is Psalm 16 I'm gonna give you an old testament picture of joy and this word that we're gonna read about is really a very much parallel word to the Greek word that we're looking at in Galatians 5 that we've looked at in James 1 that we've looked at in Hebrews 12 it means the same kind of overflowing consuming joy let's read it together Psalm 16 I want to read verses 5 through 11 because joy is a priority something that we've got to keep at the top of our list you ever find your priorities get out of whack if you don't work to keep them in order I've been there in ministry do you know good things can even overtake the main things I've been there done that I've let ministry overtake the priority of my family before and by God's grace I pray I don't get to those spots again because when I do that I forfeit so much of the joy that priorities can lead to in my life joy is a priority
[time=1726] the psalmist writes in Psalm 16 verse 5 the lord is my chosen underlying that my chosen portion and my cup you hold my light the lines have fallen for me in pleasant places indeed I have a beautiful inheritance I bless the lord who gives me counsel in the night also my heart instructs me verse 8 I have set the lord right underscore that again in your bibles I've set the lord always before me sound familiar to Hebrews 12 I've set the lord always before me because he is at my right hand I shall not be shaken therefore my heart is glad you see this joy and my whole being rejoices a verb form of that my flesh also dwells secure for you will not abandon my soul to share all or you let your holy ones seek corruption here's the joy promise verse 11 you make known to me the path of life in your presence there is the fullness of joy at your right hand our pleasures forever more I want to point out three things from that passage
[time=1784] first of all is verse five verse five we see that the lord is my chosen portion it's where this idea of priorities that joy that comes later in this passage starts with verse five that we choose the lord as my portion as my focus as my priority and boy those things can get so out of whack but then secondly verse seven I have set the lord always before me remember I asked you a minute ago when it comes to perspective what are you setting before you well the fullness of joy comes from the presence of the lord and so the psalmist says I'm finding this joy because I've set the lord always before me it looks like Hebrews two run with endurance the race that is set before us and Jesus who I just love it fix our eyes on Jesus who for the joy set before him endured the cross and so for us for the joy the set before us the joy of the lord can be our strength if we set Jesus before us because when our priorities are right my joy comes not from what happens to me but from who God is to me that's the beauty of God's joy it's not dependent on what's outside you can write it down this way that joy is chosen before it is consuming I'm preaching about consuming joy but before it can be a consuming thing in your life you've got to choose it and you I've already talked to you about what choosing it means it's not just trying harder it's about relying more joy of the lord is not about trying it's about relying on the spirit to do something in you that you can't do for yourself and the fullness of joy comes from the presence of the lord and I want to share with you today my friends that God's presence is never leaving you it's never forsaking you it's always constant God loves you so much and even when you don't feel
[time=1882] him he is present and so what that means for me if the presence of the lord is the source of joy but the presence of the lord is always available to me that means that me walking in joy experiencing joy is oftentimes less about God's presence than it is about my presence and so I ask you are you being present in your process are you being present are you showing up to pursue and choose the right perspective are you being present enough to prioritize things in your life well prioritize fixing your eyes on Jesus setting the lord always before you that presence is going to have more to do with you walking in the joy of the lord than God's presence even though God's presence is what drives it his presence doesn't change but we sure so often do don't we I'm glad that even when we're faithless he remains faithful joy is all about his presence and you know I enjoy some things that I can't find my joy in you know I enjoy sports but I can't find if I
[time=1943] had all of my joy in sports well guess what they ain't playing right now I'd be a pretty joyless person right now and that's why my joy my hope my future is not tied to a bunch of big strong guys that put shoulder pads and helmets on and throw around a little weird pig skin shaped thing I love football I love basketball yeah I went there I know it's Indiana I know I moved from Georgia and I don't get the the weight of basketball around here but that's why my joy is not in basketball but I enjoy basketball but my joy is not tied to it and listen where your joy comes from will determine when it will run out if your joy comes from convenience the moment your life is in convenience your joy stops there so where your joy comes from will help you understand when your joy is going to run out if my joy comes from affirmation and acceptance from other people then as soon as they stop liking your Instagram post and your Facebook post then your joy runs out right there as soon as as people who you depended on if your joy was coming from a relationship as soon as they let you down and they will let you down your pastor will let you down your elders will let you down your wife will let you down your kids will let you down your husband will let you down if your joy is tied there then as soon as that happens when it happens your joy will stop there but I came to preach to you today about a consuming joy because I know a well that never runs dry and his name is Jesus Christ and if your eyes are fixed upon Jesus and you draw your joy from that source your joy will never run dry either verse 11 reminds us that in your presence is the fullness of joy and it's because of that I can tell you number four number four is that joy is a promise joy is a promise Romans 15 13 is going to be on the screen for you says may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace and believing so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope and if you don't believe me yet let me point to the words of Jesus himself the red letters of the Bible from John 15 and verse 11 Jesus says these things I've spoken to you that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be full no partial joy for me this week this week I choose to embrace my process that is pursuing joy I choose to pick the right perspective the lens to look through to see things the way Jesus saw things I choose to make a priority of setting the Lord before me and I choose to trust the promise that is full joy not that partial dinky little joy that you've been leaning on but full joy that comes from Christ I want to ask you to buy your heads close your eyes and what does that mean for you today to trust in the promise that joy is as a believer maybe today you are a believer you've trusted in Jesus for salvation but your process of walking in joy has been pretty challenging lately and your perspective has gotten off or maybe the priorities of always setting the Lord before you are things that have become far fetched in this crazy season and maybe it's time to fix your eyes back on Jesus and for those of you who are here believers are praying asking God what he would have you to walk in this week how he would have you to walk in it I look around and I see so many people that I know have been through so many things I've done funerals for many of you I do I know joy feels very impossible sometimes but I'm praying over you the joy of the Lord would fill your cup in ways that would consume you this week and for some of you you need to trust Jesus for salvation Jesus died to pay a price for your sin that you couldn't pay he rose again to defeat death hell in the grave he lived that sinless life you couldn't live so that he could pay a price for you that you couldn't pay for yourself to fulfill a need that you couldn't fulfill and because he did that and because he rose again he's won the victory and that's why salvation is not about achieving it's about receiving receiving Christ means trusting in him instead of me for my salvation I'm not going to lead you in a prayer for that because I think your heart is screaming it we've already seen people come into Christ in this place today we know of people online all over the place who are doing that it's time for you to stop procrastinating and take that step in your own words cry out to God in this place and he'll meet you right where you are do it right now
[time=2216] thank God for the humble posture of all the
[time=2228] hearts in the room and in your homes wherever you may be right now and as our heads are bowed and eyes are closed I believe some of you who are children of God you've been walking with God for a long time you've trusted in Jesus for salvation but your process today has been revealed to you with a new perspective and maybe there's some priorities or a promise that you need to trust differently and because of that God has led you to a very specific step you need to take and dig into this week if that is you I want to ask you would you lift your hand right now so I can pray for you in a moment lift your hand all over the room I see you I see you all over the place thank you for being honest thank you for leaning into that step you can put your hands down and home raise your hands too God sees you I know I can but God sees you there's power and acknowledgement and likewise way I want to ask you to acknowledge today if you said yes to Jesus you nailed down your salvation you didn't expect it to be this way today but God did something inside of you that you never saw coming and you said yes to Jesus and you don't even know what all it means yet but you know you trusted in for salvation and you've nailed that down in this place if that is you want to do two things I want to welcome you to God's family by just praying for you number two I want to give you some next steps it's your journey but we're here to walk with you on that journey so if that is you right now I want to ask you would you lift your hand say pray for me pastor I said yes to Jesus I nailed down my salvation lift your hand lift it high I want to pray for you in this room anybody say today is that day for me God sees you if you're at home if you're watching us online if you're in one of our other locations lift your hand God's ready to walk with you and so are we God today we thank you for the yeses in the room maybe it's to baptism on the 16th maybe it's to find a life group maybe it is to walk in this joy that maybe we've been missing out on maybe it's to say yes to Jesus God you see all of the hearts and we thank you for that and we rejoice with the angels in heaven who God today as they see these next steps got the fullness of joy is there in heaven and even though we long for that day God you give us a glimpse of that eternal life and we can live that out in this life today we thank you for that we join with the angels in heaven and celebrating every next step and celebrating the joy of Jesus may we live out that beautiful strength in the way we come in contact with others this week we pray in Jesus name and all God's people said amen can we celebrate with the angels in heaven just