[time=0] (bell ringing)
[time=30] - Heaven is such an appealing prospect.
[time=52] It is so attractive, sometimes intoxicating that when a person is confessing their faith in Christ, we don't always know if that confession or profession of faith represents his or her
[time=65] true convictions, his or her true beliefs, or just empty words.
[time=72] Read with me Matthew chapter 7 verses 21 and following.
[time=75] The Lord says this, "Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
[time=86] What he will say to me on that day, 'Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name?' And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles, and then I will declare to them, 'I never knew you,' depart from me, you who practice lawlessness."
[time=104] There is a clear profession of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ in verse 21, "Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' you can't get any more Orthodox, you can't get any more truth of biblical content in your profession of faith and to say, 'Lord, Lord,' Jesus is the Lord." And you mean by that, he is God, he is creator, he is the sovereign, he is the one who died on the cross for your sins, and he is the one you will give rights to the rest of your life to follow his lordship.
[time=130] A profession, an Orthodox profession, a correct profession, nothing wrong with saying, 'Lord
[time=136] Lord,' nothing wrong at all with that.
[time=140] The problem comes in verse 21 when it says, "But he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven, not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven."
[time=160] This is the Sunday Morning Worship Service of Blackhawk Baptist Church.
[time=164] Thank you for joining us.
[time=166] Today Pastor Moore continues his series on the Sermon on the Mount with a message he is entitled, Empty Words.
[time=172] His text is taken from Matthew chapter 7 verses 21 through 23.
[time=176] Stay with us today as he shares with us from God's Word.
[time=180] Now let's join our service.
[time=200] [MUSIC], "Pomp and Circumstance" by John Paul.
[time=769] Let me invite you to take your Bible and come with me to Matthew chapter 7.
[time=775] If you've been with us through the summer, you know we've been studying the Sermon on the Mount and we are rapidly coming to its end.
[time=783] We probably have this message today and then next week and then we start that other series on another kind of love in September.
[time=793] Matthew chapter 7 verses 21 to 23 is the text we'll be looking at this morning.
[time=797] And as we kind of get our minds in gear on that, let me remind you as I think you're already aware, it's time again as citizens of the United States of America
[time=807] to elect another president.
[time=809] We've already had the Republican convention, the Democratic is coming up, and each candidate is going to be working very, very hard to establish his platform. He's going to talk about taxes, he's going to talk about crime, he's going to talk about our national debt, health care, campaign promises will be plentiful in the next few months as we move towards the elections.
[time=829] He's going to be trying to convince people that this is who I am, these promises represent who I am, this is what I believe.
[time=837] This is what I will do if you put me in office. And once again as the American people, we will listen, we will evaluate, and we will vote.
[time=845] But we won't really know until later if these campaign promises were the candidates,
[time=851] true convictions, true values, and true beliefs, or just empty words.
[time=859] The prospect of becoming the president of the United States is so appealing and so attractive and so intoxicating that some people will say anything to be elected, knowing in the back of their mind and the reality of their heart that once elected then they'll just kind of do the things they wanted to do anyway. What's that time again in the Sermon on the Mount?
[time=883] The prospect of heaven is so appealing, it's so attractive, so intoxicating that when a person is confessing their faith in Christ, you don't always know if that's his true conviction, if that's her real deep internal belief, or just empty words.
[time=903] Matthew chapter 7 verse 21, our Lord says this, not everyone who says to me, "Lord, Lord, we'll enter the kingdom of heaven." But he who does the will of my father who is in heaven, many will say to me on that day, "Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name?" And in your name, cast out demons, and in your name, perform many miracles, and then I will declare to them, I never knew you.
[time=927] Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness.
[time=931] These people are going to come to the Lord at the end of the age and they're going to make a profession, they're going to restate their campaign promise, and they're going to say, "Lord, Lord!" And that is a profoundly orthodox, biblical confession of faith in Christ.
[time=947] It doesn't get any better than that. When you call Jesus Christ, Lord, Lord, you are saying you are the sovereign, you are the creator, you are the savior, you are my master, you are the one that I have pledged all my allegiance to.
[time=959] You can't make a better profession of faith than Lord, Lord." You'll not enter the kingdom of heaven, some of you.
[time=971] Verse 21, "But he who does the will of my father who is in heaven." They did some religious deeds in verse 22, "Did we not prophesy in your name?" And in your name, cast out demon, and in your names, perform many miracles.
[time=983] These might have been the pinnacle of religious expression. This was their involvement in religious activity.
[time=991] Verse 23, "And then I will declare to them, I never knew you." But apart from me, you who practice lawlessness.
[time=999] Let me give you the background. These people wanted heaven so bad they could taste it. I mean, they did not want to miss out on going to heaven at the end of the age.
[time=1011] They had a long lineage and a long history and story, true story, upon true story, upon true story, have been passed down through the generations.
[time=1019] And their people had seen the glory and the power and the splendor and the wonder and the true and living God. And they believed with all their hearts, there was a day coming the kingdom of heaven, and they didn't want to miss it no matter what.
[time=1031] In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus answers the question, what does it take to gain entrance into that glorious wonderful heaven of splendor? What do I have to do?
[time=1043] What has to happen? I mean, what does it take to gain entrance into heaven?
[time=1047] Jesus basically answers their question in one word. He says righteousness. Righteousness is what it takes to get into heaven. And being the master teacher that he is, like all master teachers in the minds of their students, they worked from the known to the unknown, and they had a certain standard of righteousness that they knew about. It was the highest one they'd ever seen in all their lives. He says in chapter 5, verse 20, a little bit earlier in the Sermon on the Mount, he said this, "For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and the Pharisees, you shall not enter the kingdom of heaven." And this was astounding news to these people on this mountainside outside of Galilee. Because the scribes and the Pharisees, these men were as righteous as men could get on their own effort. Let me say that again. These scribes and Pharisees were as righteous as men could make themselves in and of themselves and on their own effort. The scribes and the Pharisees embodied the epitome of human achievement towards human righteousness. They were obsessed with religion. They were constantly praying and constantly fasting and constantly giving. They didn't murder. They didn't commit adultery. And they thought that they had achieved the standard of righteousness which would make them acceptable with God.
[time=1123] And so as the religious leaders of their day, they said to everybody else, you want to go to heaven be as righteous as we are.
[time=1131] And so it was truly an astounding thing that Jesus was saying on this mountainside when He looked them in the eye and He said, "You want to go to heaven, you have got to have a righteousness that is higher, that is greater, that surpasses that of the scribes and the Pharisees." In fact, later Jesus,
[time=1153] in this sermon and later in this book Jesus dismantled this whole form of righteousness. Later He said to the scribes and the Pharisees, "You know what kind of a righteousness you guys have? You have the righteousness that's comparable to a, a dirty dish." And what you all do is you clean the outside of the dish, but the inside of the dish He said is full of robbery and self-indulgence. The best your religion, the best your human achievement can possibly accomplish is a mere covering of the still corrupt and still sinful and still self-indulgent heart that beats in your breast.
[time=1188] He later said to them, "The best your religion can do, the kind of righteousness that you have now been able to achieve is like that of a whitewashed tomb." And it looks great on the outside. I mean you've, you've spiffed it all up and you've re whitewashed it again. But if we just remove that and we look at the reality of your heart, the reality of your life, the reality of your inner man, you are full of dead man's bones and diseases.
[time=1216] It's true on the outside they were cleaned, they never committed murder, but on the inside they were full of anger.
[time=1224] It's true on the outside they'd never committed adultery, they were clean, but on the inside they were lustful to the core. And God is saying the best of human religion is not enough for heaven.
[time=1236] The righteousness that can be attained through the most zealous and comprehensive commitment to human religion is insufficient to gain entrance into the kingdom of God. He doesn't say this because he's mad at them. He doesn't say this because he's angry with them.
[time=1252] He says this because they are self-deluded. They think their righteousness is sufficient and he loves them enough to tell them the truth.
[time=1260] Your righteousness is insufficient. It must surpass that of the scribes and the Pharisees. And the obvious question that lingers in their mind is well by how much do we have to surpass that standard of righteousness?
[time=1272] I mean if you've got to go beyond the scribes and the Pharisees, how much beyond the scribes and Pharisees? And the answer comes just a few verses later in the Sermon on the Mount.
[time=1280] Chapter 5 verse 48 when he says this, "Therefore you are to be perfect." Perfect!
[time=1288] And then he adds this phrase, "As your heavenly Father is perfect." I mean it is a divine standard of righteousness and it is completely out of reach to any mere mortal. To be perfect like the heavenly Father is perfect is to never have once had an encounter with personal sin at any level. Behavioral, motivational, mental, or any other category. God is holy and he is separate from all sin. And so Jesus unequivocally establishes the reality that in order to gain entrance into heaven you have to have a perfect righteousness that is like that of the heavenly Father. You have never had even a brush with personal sin.
[time=1328] And in this he makes his point again. No religion provides the commodity that you need.
[time=1336] You need a pure source of righteousness because pure righteousness that akin to the Father is the only kind of righteousness that gains you entrance into the kingdom of heaven.
[time=1348] No amount of human effort can ever produce that perfect righteousness.
[time=1356] And that's when he begins his discussion of the broad road.
[time=1360] He says many of you are trying to get to heaven on the broad road which has marked religion. And through your human achievement you are trying to accomplish a level of righteousness. And it doesn't matter if it's a Baptist religion or a Presbyterian religion or a Lutheran or a Methodist or a Buddhist or a Hindu or any other of the myriad religions of the world. They are all considered the broad road. They are all if human achievement is the issue and the effort is to work towards pleasing God through human effort. They all are constituted the broad road and they all lead the destruction. He says the broad road leads the destruction. The broad road has marked religion. The broad road is human achievement and it goes to destruction. And he says the only other alternative that all men must face and make a decision about is the narrow road and I am the narrow road. It is Jesus Christ the true and living Son of God. And when you say goodbye to human righteousness and goodbye to human achievement and you embrace the person of Jesus Christ as your personal Lord and Savior you are now on the narrow road that leads to life. He makes the distinction as clearly as he possibly can because he loves them and wants them to know.
[time=1428] Christ is the only way to heaven because it is only from Christ that you can receive the righteousness that satisfies the requirements for entrance to heaven.
[time=1440] Jesus Christ the righteous lamb of God without spot, without sin. God incarnate dies for human man and makes available now the gift of righteousness by grace not through human achievement, not through earning something before God but as a free gift he hands the commodity of pure righteousness into the heart and life and soul of a sinner so the sinner can go to heaven. That's why it says in Romans chapter 10 confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead and you shall be saved. It doesn't say work it doesn't say religion it doesn't say human achievement it says this confess with your mouth that the true and living God became Jesus Christ died on the cross purchased the righteousness and then gave it to you as a gift.
[time=1496] Say it with your mouth and mean it with your heart. Say it with your mouth and mean it with your heart. Let it be the defining value of all that you are. Jesus is my Savior. Jesus is the source of righteousness that I have received to go to heaven and it's this understanding that one must confess with his mouth and believe in his heart that brings us to the crooks of the matter here in the Sermon on the Mount. These are the campaign promises that we're speaking of. Does a person confess Jesus now as a true conviction of their heart, as the true belief of their inner man, as the defining value of who they are or is that confession of Jesus just an empty set of words that you picked up somewhere along the line. Did you did you get into this Christianity thing on the coattails of someone else? Did your wife drag you into this? Did your parents lead you into this? Have you unknowingly and unwittingly and non-critically assumed a posture of the acceptance of Christ, a confession of acceptance of Christ, but that is not the true value in conviction and belief and core reality of your life.
[time=1564] He says, "Those are the people who will come to me in 21 and say, 'Lord, Lord.'" This is not their true confession.
[time=1572] This is not the core reality of their being. They want heaven. They want the things of the hereafter, but they've never truly embraced me as Savior. And they come with a perfect confession. The best campaign promises man could dream up, "Lord, Lord," but he says, "Not everyone who says those things to me will enter the kingdom of heaven because," or rather, "but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven." He says, "The litmus test," because you can't look in your own heart necessarily and see for sure that you're stamped saved. You've made a confession of faith. These people made a confession of faith. And the obvious question is, how do I know if my profession of faith was real, if it was genuine, if it was heartfelt, if it was true of me that I'd only confessed him with my mouth, but believed on him in my heart. How do I know that?
[time=1620] And the Lord gives two litmus tests. They are the same test. They are opposite sides of the same coin. At the end of verse 21, it is the one who does the will of the Father who is in heaven. At the end of verse 23, the opposite side of the same coin, the ones who don't get in are the ones who practice lawlessness. Practice lawlessness.
[time=1640] In other words, if your confession of Christ is real and genuine, now listen to this, please. If your confession of Christ is real and genuine, it sets off a chain reaction of spiritual events that lead you to do the will of the Father and away from lawlessness. What Jesus is saying here is this, if your profession of faith in Christ is real, it sets off a series of spiritual events like dominoes that fall cause and effect relationship. A true, genuine acceptance of Christ sets off a series of spiritual events that inevitably lead you to love and long and obey the will of the Father and inevitably leave you away from a lifestyle of lawlessness.
[time=1684] On the other hand, if your confession of Christ is empty words and empty campaign promises, then no chain reaction of spiritual events is set off inside of your life and your heart. And you remain interested in the Father's will. You may acquiesce, you may give some external line of compliance, but you are disinterested at the heart level of the Father's will and you begin to continue to live in lawlessness, if not outwardly at least inwardly.
[time=1712] And so the question is, what are these spiritual events? What are the dominoes that fall?
[time=1720] I mean, how do I know if the spiritual realities that should happen when a person truly accepts Christ as personal Lord and Savior did happen when I said I did?
[time=1732] And so this morning I would endeavor to give you four, there could be more, there are more, but I've chosen to give you four of the big dominoes that fall inside the life and inside the heart of a person who has truly accepted Christ as Savior.
[time=1752] The first big domino, and this is wonderful, my friends. This is unbelievable.
[time=1756] This is staggering. The first of the dominoes to fall is that that person at the moment of confessing Christ from their heart is adopted into the family of God. If the conversion and the confession is true, in Colossians 1-13 it says that that person is then delivered from the domain of darkness and transferred to the kingdom of his beloved son.
[time=1780] I want you for a moment to see my pulpit as the dividing line, and on this side if you would, the dominion of darkness, and on this side the kingdom of his beloved son.
[time=1792] And what the Bible says is that when we are born, we are born over here in the domain of darkness. We are born with sinful hearts and rebellious attitudes against God.
[time=1800] And little apologetic is needed for this concept. Look only at your own life, your own selfishness, your own propensity to sin.
[time=1808] And it was from your beginnings. It comes from deep within you.
[time=1812] Man is born in the domain of darkness.
[time=1816] And the Bible says that when a true confession of faith is made in the person of Jesus Christ, that individual is transferred out of that domain and brought into the kingdom of his beloved son, the son meaning Jesus Christ. There is an actual literal transfer of the soul and the spiritual status of the heart, mind, and soul of that individual and that dominion into this dominion. Ephesians 1-5 says at that moment of confessing Christ, when it is true, genuine and real, we are adopted as sons into the kingdom of God.
[time=1848] Something happens when you come over here. When you get involved inside the power and the wonder and the provision, God begins to make promises to you. God begins to make commitments to you.
[time=1860] He guarantees to move you inexorably to conformity to Christ, to the place that you look like Jesus Christ when all is said and done.
[time=1868] He commits all of his power, all of his provisions, all of his promises, and all of his care to his children over here in the kingdom of his beloved son. He makes no such commitments to people on that side of Christ.
[time=1880] He makes no such promises to the people who are in the dominion of darkness.
[time=1884] Only when they come through Christ and enter the kingdom of his son does he then begin to commit his resources to them. It says in Philippians 1-6, Paul saying I am confident of this very thing, that he, meaning God, who began this work in you, will perfect it until the day of Jesus Christ.
[time=1900] You see a person's movement towards Christ's likeness at the moment of their conversion becomes the personal responsibility of the Heavenly Father to take his resources and his power and his love and his courageous involvement in their life to move them towards Christ's likeness.
[time=1916] I want you to imagine for a moment, an orphan, on the streets of India somewhere.
[time=1924] Five, six-year-old orphan.
[time=1928] And I want you to imagine a successful godly, articulate, businessman from the United States of America. And when the orphan and the businessman meet face-to-face in India, at that particular moment, the orphan has no claim on the businessman. There are no promises of provision. There are no promises for care. If that orphan gets something to eat that day, it's going to be because that orphan figured out how to do that. If that orphan gets closed, it's because the orphan figured out how to get clothed. If the orphan gets educated, it's because the orphan figured out how to get educated.
[time=1964] But you let that godly, strong, successful businessman adopt that little orphan and all of a sudden they come into the kingdom, into the household, and there is now both heart and legal care and guardianship and fathership of that child.
[time=1980] And now all of a sudden all the wealth and all the experience and all the godliness and all the maturity of that strong mature business begins to flow into the life of that orphan. They are no longer an orphan. They've been adopted.
[time=1996] That's what God does. You come to me through my son.
[time=2000] You come to me in true and genuine faith and I give you all the resources of my kingdom. I make you a joint heir in the inheritance of all that I have ever given my son Christ. And we will walk together.
[time=2012] And I will be there to carry you.
[time=2016] The imagery I love to think of is being over here in the domain of darkness and you come to Christ and you're placed then in the middle of a huge, strong, powerful river. And you're placed on that river in a little inner tube. And that river and the power of that river and the current of that river represent the power and the provision and the love of God to move you from this point to that point.
[time=2044] He is appointed destination for you. Complete conformity to Christ.
[time=2048] And here you are caught in the enormous current of his love. And he says you can struggle. You can turn your raft around and try to go the opposite direction. You can kick and you can flail.
[time=2060] But I am bigger than all of that. And the power and the current of my love will inexorably move you to the place I have promised to take you in the conformity to the image of Christ. Now that is why when people come to the Lord at the end of the age and say Lord, Lord, and they have an absolutely orthodox profession of faith in Christ. But they have not sought the will of the Father. And they have not practiced holiness but rather there has been lawlessness that Jesus says time out.
[time=2088] Time out. You don't know my father. You haven't been caught up in the current of his irresistible love to conform and move you to the image of Christ. You can say anything you want to about me and your belief in me and your allegiance to me.
[time=2104] But there are some spiritual realities that would have happened in your life if your confession had been genuine and I see no evidence.
[time=2112] You have not done the will of the Father.
[time=2116] Instead you have practiced lawlessness.
[time=2120] Number two.
[time=2124] The best I know how to say it and you can say it in different terms but the best I know how to say it is at the moment
[time=2130] at the very moment of the true confession of Christ God performs a spiritual heart transplant.
[time=2138] God performs a spiritual heart transplant.
[time=2142] He takes out the heart that is wicked and rebellious and hates God and runs from God and cowers from God and he gives instead a heart that is spiritual in nature that longs to be with God that has the affections of God and the perspectives of God and the values of God and the longings for God and embryonic as they are in that brand new little babe in Christ and nurture yes it needs and the transformation of the mind that follows and all the cultivating processes that we work on in our spiritual disciplines but nevertheless there is a new heart. A spiritual heart has been given at the very moment of true conversion in Christ. That's why it says in 2 Corinthians 5 if any man is in Christ and that little phrase in Christ is kind of a way of referring to that true conversion experience.
[time=2190] If any man is in Christ it goes on to say he is a new creature the old things have passed away behold new things have come and while yes there are still parts of us that can long and be distracted and tempted and we can fall into sin over and over again there is nevertheless the true reality that fills our heart a longing and an expectation and a hoping and a valuing of the things of God. That's why Paul said after his conversion in Romans 7 he was a man who did not but now he says I joyfully concur with the law of God in my inner man when God speaks to me I rejoice something resonates deep within me that that is the voice of my Heavenly Father and that is the law that I want to follow and it's not something I have to remind myself about it's not something I have to do on the outside but don't have an inside corresponding reality I mean when I hear the law of God I want to do it from the inside out. It's a real found change that goes on inside the heart, soul, and mind of a person at the moment of true conversion. I liken it to that of the experience of the animal trainer who has the little lion cub and is a effective animal trainer and so by the right kinds of positive reinforcements and the right kinds of negative reinforcements the animal trainer is somehow able to domesticate that little lion cub and it gets to learn how to use a very large cat box and it learns to sit on your lap and it gets declawed and it gets fed with a bottle and it just seems to have the mannerisms of a kitty cat I mean just have a house cat of a wonderful ordinary common house cat and now see the animal trainer says I have trained I have domesticated the wild beast but all you have to do is let that little lion cub get to age get to the age and let it see the right thing at the right time and suddenly what that lion cub really is which is still a wild beast on the inside it will eventually evidence itself and he'll act he'll kill he'll devour he will act according to who he truly is at some point oh yeah you can you can coat the outside with religion you can take a person who's born in the dominion of sin and has a heart of rebellion against the true and living god and you can try to make them look like they're something other than they are but eventually in time the real corrupt heart will have its way in the life of that individual and that is why Jesus can say to these people who come to him and say Lord Lord we got the right confession and we did a few of the domesticated acts we healed some people we did some miracles we did some things and he says time out we're not asking about a few domesticated things here we're not asking about a few religious acts in your confession I'd like to know the characteristic pattern of your life because I know the Lord speaking that you will live according to who you are on the inside if you were really a child of mine if your confession was true and genuine in conversion it actually happened at that moment I would have given you a new heart and that new heart would have called you time and time and time and time again as a predominant characteristic of your life back to the will of my father it would have called you away from practicing lawlessness you couldn't have been able to live like you've lived if you truly had the new heart I would have given you were your confession true false profession no spiritual heart transplant false profession no spiritual heart transplant all that person gets caught up in is the mild animal training exercises of religion number three I call these the twin towers
[time=2411] you'll find that rising up curiously inside of you
[time=2417] will be two things two very powerful things you will begin to hate sin
[time=2423] in a way you've never hated sin before and you will begin to love people in a way you've never loved people before and as you look out over the city of values if you will these two giant things will rise above the skyline and they will be there I hate sin and I love people you'll begin to hate sin oh you'll continue to commit sin even if you're truly born again because just because we're born again doesn't mean we act perfectly we are given the righteousness of God but it isn't until we're in heaven that we actually are perfect literally physically in day-to-day experience oh you'll continue to sin but there'll be a different component in that sinning that sinning will grieve your heart it will tear the fabric of your soul you will feel compromised you'll feel broken in your integrity you'll feel squelched and squeezed and compressed by the guilt and the shame that you a forgiven lover of God would continue to wallow in that particular behavior time and time again it will rob the joy of life as David said he felt to him like his body was wasting away he was groaning all day long the vitality that normally filled his heart as he walked obediently before God had been drained away as with the fervor heat of summer you can have an absolutely gorgeous stellar day like we have today and like we have had yesterday but you'll be a Christian and you'll be walking in sin and this day won't move you one bit because you will be consumed with an inner discussion and turmoil over the reality that you are in a position of unconfessed sin unresolved sin with your heavenly Father you will hate sin and you will hate what it does to your life if you're truly born again moving away from that kind of sin will become the most important thing in your life be more important to you than fun more important to you than other people's opinion more important to you than money more important to you than your job or your career you will have a resounding hatred of sin and you will go to any length to get it out of your life rising up next to that hatred of sin will be another of these twin towers called the love of people
[time=2555] and you will begin to have this curious love for people that you didn't really love before I mean there's going to be a connection growing in your heart towards your wife and towards your kids and towards people that are your friends people at work and and it's going to surprise you at times you're going to say man where where does all that love come from where does all that sense of commitment come from you're going to begin to see the interdependent relationships of life and how your sin hurts other people sin is going to become hateful to you not just because it diminishes your own sense of integrity and compromises your walk with God and kind of ruins a good day but you're going to begin to load sin because your love of people is growing at a rate and you know that when you're in sin you're not the dad you ought to be you're going to begin to say to yourself I'm the only dad these kids have and when I'm in sin and when I'm when I've squelched the ministry of the Holy Spirit in my life and I'm walking around in this little mini rebellion thing I don't do good dad for my kids you're going to begin to understand and be grieved in your heart as you watch your wife wilt in her personal being because you are walking in sin and not being the husband that God wanted you to be to her and those two twin towers of hating sin and loving people will inexorably move you away from the practice of lawlessness you won't be able to tolerate it you're repulsed by it something deep within you has just an enormous aversion begin to say I have something to offer to my wife I have something unique to offer to my children I have something unique to offer to my staff and to this church and when I give myself to the things of sin I am of no value or minimal value or insufficient value to them and so because of my love for them coupled with my hatred of what sin does in my life no no I can't walk in consistent disobedience against the will of God no I can't make a pattern of lawlessness in my life oh I fall to it and I hate it when I do and I confess it and I try to get as right as I can as quick as I can because sin is no longer appealing on the long term and the people I can influence get a hurt when I do let me give you a fourth the last one here if you're really born again if you if you if you're conversion if your confession is really a core value in your life the core value of your life you'll find you're becoming the friend of God you'll find that you're becoming the friend of God instead of walking around in shame and guilt and fear instead of cursing him instead of damning him instead of blaming him instead of shaking your spiritual fist in his face you'll find that over time you are becoming the friend of God and that you're walking with God and that in walking with God as you awaken in the morning he's more important to you than anything else is knowing that as you live this particular day when his all is said and done he will be pleased with you with your heart with your attitudes with your confession of sin as you've slipped during the day with your acts of unprompted love with with your commitment to represent him that becomes more important to you than anything walking around during the day feeling truly grateful for all the things he's given you instead of focusing on resentment all the things that maybe he hasn't given you that you think you need or want walking around during the day with a sense of deep trust in your heavenly father as he becomes your friend the trusted friend the trusted guardian of your life instead of distrust and anger being at peace with him having that sense that all is well and you will not want to having tasted that live a minute without it there will be a friendship between you and God and it will be rich and it will be enjoyable Paul communicated it this way he said I count all things to be lost in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord and by knowing he didn't mean intellectually he meant intimately and daily and moment by moment experiencing the presence of Christ as he moved in and around Asia minor and his other travels calling people to repentance he did it with Christ right there in his presence and he said everything else in my life everything else I used to hold dear is now on a comparative basis rubbish to me over time Paul grew in that it became stronger and stronger and stronger one of the Old Testament heroes is a man by the name of Joseph
[time=2845] and he understood what I mean to become the friend of God though he was sold as a young boy of 16 years of age into a foreign land the land of Egypt by brothers who hated him and went back and reported to their father that they had killed Joseph and Joseph now in this foreign land with no connection to family no connection to heritage no connection to people who knew and loved him for who he was but somehow staying and pursuing staying obedient and pursuing a relationship with God he finds his way into the household of one of the most powerful men in all of Egypt the man who ran the imperial guard but in that same home the the wife of that man who ran the imperial guard was a lustful woman and Joseph apparently was very handsome in form and appearance and she had set her mark on him and she the Bible says over and over day in and day out in a variety of different ways called and beckoned enticed and invited Joseph to have sexual relations with her and when that whole thing finally hit the apex they were alone she had a hold of his garment and she was calling again and again to him saying now is the moment now is the time and it appears that no one would have known no one in Egypt and certainly no one in his homeland would have known they thought he was dead Joseph ran out of that room and as he went he said how can I do this great evil and sin against my God and what that lady didn't get was that over time a friendship had developed between Joseph and his God that was so intimate and so valuable and so strong and so meaningful to Joseph that the moment of sexual bliss could not even compare to what it felt like for him on a daily basis to walk with God his friend he had tasted it and he wasn't going to relinquish it to anybody
[time=2963] well what about you this morning?
[time=2967] is your profession of Christ true?
[time=2975] is it the core essential value of all of your existence that Jesus Christ the living son of God died on the cross and has given you the righteousness as a free gift that gains entrance into heaven? or is it an empty promise? is it empty words?
[time=2991] well Jesus says do this look at the characteristic pattern of your life from that moment in time when you say that you accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Lord and Savior what has been the characteristic pattern of your life have you been growing in your delight and your obedience to the father's will has it become ever the greater part of your existence and life to live for God and to obey his word and sure your pock marked with sin as the Bible said you would be but even when you do sin you repent and you run hard and fast back to the center of God's will as best you know is that who you've been becoming since you made this profession of faith or has there been just a profession of faith but maybe in ways people can see and maybe in ways people can't see you know there has been the ever encroachment of sin upon your life and the things which you know are not God's will for your life take greater and greater possession of your time and your thoughts and your money and your desires and you are over time looking more lawless internally and externally against the righteous will of God than you are compliant to it. When I give you a short brief list of the spiritual dominoes that fall in the heart of a truly converted person do you feel like you've been adopted by God do you have the subjective sense that all of the power of heaven and the provision of heaven and the promises of heaven are at your disposal not to make your life look like what you want it to on the outside but to conform and move and shape and mold and teach and train and move you to Christ likeness. Do you have that subjective sense that God would move heaven and hell on your behalf do you have the sense that you have had a heart transplant that something is different strangely different inside of you in terms of your values and your longings and your aspirations and what you want to do with your life and why you want to do it do you have across the landscape of your values to twin towers that are rising up and getting stronger and bigger each and every day the profound insightful hatred of sin and an overwhelming love of other people and are you finding the day after day you become the friend of God?
[time=3123] Oh you've had your conversations and you've had your disagreements but those seem somehow to get worked out and on the backside of those disagreements there's a deeper level of trust and a deeper level of love and a deeper level of commitment on your part to trust and follow him so that when we sing songs about the faithfulness of God it's not been one mountaintop experience of faithfulness after another on your part you've questioned him and you've wondered and you've walked out at times but he's brought you back and you know now better than ever what it means to be the friend of God.
[time=3153] Let me just suggest this talk to you this morning.
[time=3157] If you're suspecting that yours are empty words because of the pattern of life and nothing resonates in you truly with these four indicators of spiritual life let me encourage you not to push this conversation out of your mind let me encourage you at this very moment not to think now how can I get out of this room without having to deal with this issue. Let me tell you this may be one of the one of the most glorious moments of your entire life on a personal level I want you to know that I was raised in a Christian home went to church since I was a little kid went to summer Bible vacation schools went to Christian camps had Bibles and could tell you the truth about Jesus Christ being God's Son the Savior of the world the bestower of perfect righteousness on undeserving centers through grace since I was old enough to remember but I was not saved I was not saved and it wasn't about the time that I was 13 and 14 years of age that I was able to have the personal power to get outside of the domesticating religious efforts of my folks and they were trying to get me converted but there was the religious externals that were bothering me and so as I got stronger I was able to defy those and deceive them and as I got a little older then I could set my own plans without disfying and deceiving them and it wasn't until I was 20 years old in a cement truck in the middle of Los Angeles that God revealed to me based upon the characteristic pattern of my life lawlessness and an aversion to the will of my father who was in heaven that I had nothing but a false profession
[time=3251] wasn't truly born again at all wasn't truly converted at all and I'm so thankful I can tell you 17 years later I am so thankful I didn't push the convicting work of the Holy Spirit out of my mind and heart at that moment I could have turned the radio on I could have pulled that truck in and gotten a big Mac and let's just calm down here talk to somebody else about you know what the Dodgers are doing today I'm so thankful that I just sat right there and let the spirit of God have his way in my heart and my friends if he's speaking to you this morning please let him have his way
[time=3287] if you are a false professor of Christ this morning allow him to have his way with you in a moment we're going to stand for a closing word of prayer and I'm going to I'm going to give you a chance to respond to the Holy Spirit I'm going to invite you to say unashamedly to God God I'm a false professor I'm not a true believer it's not the true core value I mean just this short exposure to what it ought to be from the word of God tells me I'm not I admit to you and then you just cry out for being saved you just cry out and say oh God save me through your son if you've got the power and if you've got the ability to change my life from the pattern of lawlessness by these marvelous gifts that you give me I need those I want those save me save me well let me invite you now to stand and we'll have a closing word of prayer here at the end of this service you want to talk to somebody we have some counselors through these doors on my left and they're trained in the things of God and would love to answer any questions you have and minister to you just love on you a little bit let's pray together with your heads bowed and your eyes closed and
[time=3367] I just want you to know I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand or come forward or do anything I just want you to have a moment with God here for a minute and for me it was a cement truck in the middle of Los Angeles for you maybe it's right here at this church and it doesn't matter to God where it is it just matters that you're connecting in your heart at a real level this time with him and if you know you're on the outside if you know that the spirit of God is revealing in no uncertain terms to you this morning you are not you are not truly safe then you want to make that right with God you can do it right now say in your heart these things to him he'll hear you say my Heavenly Father I've been a pretender
[time=3413] my profession has been superficial intellectual and insufficient
[time=3419] I believe beyond a shadow of a doubt that I am not now saved that if I were to die now I would go to hell in my own sins
[time=3429] so please save me
[time=3437] please just save me through the person of Christ the one who is your son the one who died for me save me give me eternal life the gift I don't deserve the righteousness I could never earn please save me through Christ and for those of us who are here today and we hear this message and it rings true we need to say thank you to God we need to say thank you God for saving us thank you for showing us the way to the narrow person of Christ and thank you for the reality we sense in our heart as we go through this little list we can see these things in our lives it is true about us you have saved us our confession was real and so we praise you and we thank you for that great gift Heavenly Father you are beyond words you are awesome you are wonderful you are holy you are righteous and we lift you up and extol your name we praise you and we love you we pray to you in the name of your blessed holy righteous son and all God's people say amen
[time=3523] in a moment I'll give you our address so you can
[time=3539] receive a copy of lessons on assurance you can also receive a cassette copy of today's message just ask for tape number 1775 or mention the message by pastor more entitled empty words your gift of three dollars will help to free the cost of providing this tape the financial gifts from the Bible Hour Founders Club help support this ministry if you'd like to join the Founders Club just write to us now here's our address the Bible Hour 7400 East State Fort Wayne Indiana 46815 this is Craig Volker speaking on behalf of Pastor Moore and the entire Bible Hour staff inviting you to join us each week for the Bible Hour
[time=3581] [MUSIC]
[time=3611] [BLANK_AUDIO]